<h1> Evolutionary_Absurdity_Against_Naturalism </h1>

    Apparently, many Christian apologists think that if evolution is real, then naturalism is not.Or something like that. In general, it is difficult to say, because the argument itself is very strange. But let's see if our good friend “Inspiring Philosophy” can explain everything. When we hear any new attempt to explain thinking ... naturalistic, then we must react to this, as if someone said that he found a square circle ... 

    One of the most amazing things in apologists such as incoming philosophy is how they cannot even say something incredibly stupid in the first ten seconds. For example, consider this quote.The only logical option in which this statement can be true in general is if the idea of naturalism somehow contradicts the idea of thinking. Literally, the statement of the “thinking is a natural phenomenon” should imply some logical impossibility, like married bachelors or square circles. 

    However, this cannot be at all like that only if the definition of thinking already does not initially imply a mandatory supernatural process! Thus, the argument has not even begun yet, but this idiot is already making a vicious circle! He actually announces in advance that he categorically denies the very possibility of a naturalistic (natural) explanation for human thinking. One of the centuries -old problems of philosophy is the problem of skepticism. 

    How can we be sure that what we experience in experience and know is true?And not an illusion or just a useful model? How do we know that our knowledge is correct, and not a deception imposed on us by external forces? This is another feature of religious apologists that constantly amazes me. What he says here about skepticism is not entirely wrong, but it is expressed in a lazy and incompetent way. 

    For example, what does it mean for experience to be true? Because, as far as I remember, truth is a parameter of statements, not experiments. To ask whether or not "experience is true" is how to ask "what color my music is?" This can mean something vaguely for someone in some figurative sense, but from a purely technical position it is just meaningless nonsense. What he really tries to ask is how we can be convinced that our experience is caused by a real objective reality, and not some kind of illusion like a “matrix”. 

    This is the fundamental problem of skepticism, and this can be absolutely fair to worry when studying epistemology. But of course it is difficult to solve such problems when you cannot even express them normally! The standard way to solve this problem is through the position of "epistemological exclusivity", Which generally means that knowledge is innocent is not yet proved by his guilt. That is, there is no reason to doubt our knowledge, beliefs and intuitions until we find a specific reason that causes doubts. 

    See what I was talking about?Let's re -read it.There is no reason to doubt our beliefs until we find a specific reason to doubt our beliefs. Thank you so much for this greatest wisdom! And if without empty tautologies, then where specifically IP took the idea that this is the standard path to solving the problem of skepticism? He exposes it as if all philosophers everywhere simply carelessly ignore this problem. 

    In reality, of course, nothing can be further from the truth. Since the time of Rene Descartes, philosophers understood completely reasonable reasons to be concerned about the objectivity of sensory data. That is why every authoritative philosophical source openly recognizes skepticism as a very serious problem that needs to be dealt with. And speaking of “epistemological exclusivity”, I was generally forced to look for this term, because I never even heard it before watching this video. 

    This is a very little-known term that pops up in just a few articles, and does not represent a popular opinion separated by any significant people. And not only this, but the definition does not even correspond to the one that IP said. According to his own link, quote: epistemological exclusivity is the opinion that there are separate elements of knowledge (reasonable belief), Which a person can know (reasonably to be convinced of them) without knowledge of how he knows them. 

    This is not the same as "innocent before evidence of guilt." It is as if IP deliberately invents from the air, or it is really so incompetent in the basic understanding of what has been read. But what if there was a reason that can make us start doubting our beliefs? What if our beliefs lead to internal contradictions and vicious circles. We already have a reason to doubt our beliefs.It is called "skepticism."You just mentioned it 30 seconds ago. 

    This is a well -documented problem that demonstrates itself in our everyday life. We see dreams, we hallucinate, we remember mistakenly, we experience illusions, we have a limited, error, subjective point of view on the reality external and independent of the mind. Therefore, we cannot know anything from it with any “absolute” “ideal” accuracy. This is the foundation of the entire modern epistemology and philosophy of science. 

    The train left a century ago, but the IP pretends to be that it has not yet moved. Fortunately, not all beliefs are as follows.But if you adhere to philosophical naturalism, then this is exactly so. Philosophical evolutionary naturalism is considered the belief that there are no supernatural entities, And that the natural world is all that exists, and people appeared by chance, through blind material interactions. 

    Inspaering the philosopher, what does we think all the idiots? He just showed an encyclopedic definition of naturalism in his own video, and then began to read a completely different definition. He does this a second time in less than a minute of the conversation. Let's read the quote provided to him by him. Quote: Naturalism is an approach to philosophical problems that interprets them as solved through methods of empirical sciences, or at least without clearly a priori theoretical models. 

    For most of the history of philosophy, the opinion was widespread that philosophy includes a distinct method and can achieve knowledge different from those achieved by specific sciences. Therefore, metaphysics and epistemology often jointly take the position of “first philosophy”, laying the necessary basis for understanding reality and justifying statements about knowledge. Naturalism rejects the statements of philosophy to this special status. 

    In epistemology, ethics, philosophy of the mind, philosophy of language and other areas, naturalism seeks to show that traditionally understood philosophical problems are poorly formulated and can be solved or replaced through the corresponding naturalistic methods. Naturalism often prescribes a key role in the methods and results of empirical sciences and sometimes boils down to reductionism and physics. 

    However, there are many versions of naturalism, and some are openly not scented. They share the refusal of the consideration of philosophy as soon as the a priori theorizing, which is engaged in a purely philosophical set of issues. Here you are.Naturalism is not a specific set of beliefs about the Universe, but rather a methodology for analyzing philosophical problems. Most often, this methodology is specifically understood as following the rules of empirical sciences, which is actually the target of all this discussion. 

    However, note that naturalism does not necessarily deny the existence of supernatural entities, and it also does not force you to any certain views on human development. These are simply consequences of naturalism, not its defining characteristics. It is important to understand that anything that exists and interacts with other existing things should, by definition, have nature - a set of significant identifiable characteristics and cause-and-effect relationships with other things. 

    We can formally declare these characteristics using purely analytical methods, but any statement about their existence can be justified only through empirical data. In contrast, it is generally pointless to speak of supernatural entities from a philosophical point of view. How do I identify an entity that by definition needs no essential characteristics? How can I prove that such a thing even exists when, by definition, such things cannot behave according to any causal predictive laws? Naturalists do not deny supernatural entities through some purely a priori conviction. 

    They deny them because the idea itself is impossible to understand! We would have evolved by chance from lower animals through the transmission of traits and beliefs that helped us survive. No, this is not the inherent view of naturalism. This is a loosely worded generalization of human evolutionary biology as we understand it through the corresponding findings of naturalistic methodologies. And even here you still managed to understand the key aspects incorrectly. 

    Beliefs are not transmitted from one generation to the following, because beliefs are not inherited signs, only genes can do this. As the naturalist Daniel Dennet said: “The mind is a brain, or more specifically, a system or an organization inside the brain, which has evolved in much the same way as our immune system or respiratory system or digestive system. Like many other natural miracles, the human mind is something like a set of skills, knitted together over millions of years by the blind process of evolution through natural selection.” So then everything that makes us who we are has come together through natural selection to help us survive. 

    However, this includes everything about us, which includes our brain chemistry and how it functions. The evolving human brain then appeared only as a means of helping the body in survival. Nowhere did Dennet mean that literally everything that makes you who you eat is completely determined by genetics and natural selection. He simply talks about the natural development of human brains, and explains how your mind is simply a product of this brain in action. 

    However, there is still much to be said about the importance of environmental conditions and personal experiences as powerful factors in building a holistic sense of self-identity. That is, this is not just "evolution and nothing but it." Therefore, if naturalism is true, then everything that makes the brain is intended for survival, What necessarily includes all beliefs and thoughts in it. Which leads to the fact that all the beliefs about reality that we believe to be true are actually just formed in the brain to aid our survival. 

    And therefore this also includes a belief in naturalism. So if you are convinced that naturalism is true, then you must also be convinced that you are convinced that naturalism is true because your brain has decided that the belief is useful for survival, not because it is true. I mean, yes, IP does believe that, according to naturalism, everything in your mind is the product of pure natural selection alone. 

    There is no place for personal experience and environment conditions, and everything should uniformly stimulate survival. First, nothing in philosophical naturalism requires you to take any position for or against evolution. Only by applying the naturalistic methods of science a person comes to convincing evidence of the evolutionary history of human development. Since this development already covers everything from basic morphology to fundamental biochemistry, why not include cognitive abilities here? We know that physical brains are specifically responsible for our memory, sensory processing, behavioral responses and language, then why not also our higher thinking abilities? Nothing of this presumption is problematic by nature, only if someone has not decided in advance that human thinking is literally a product of magic! It is as if no natural process is fundamentally capable of producing reliable cognitive abilities. 

    Secondly, not everything that makes the brain must be for the sake of survival. Survival alone does not guarantee reproductive success, nor does every conscious moment of our lives need to be consumed by this goal. All that evolution is fundamentally require, this is that the brain as a result does at least something that will affect reproductive success more than without it. You can spend hours every day just picking your nose and scratching your butt, and natural selection will not necessarily reject you. 

    All it asks is that you do something else with the remaining time that promotes reproductive success. Thirdly, the incoming philosopher seems to hopelessly do not understand the difference between the process and the product. The mind is not simply a collection of stored memories and beliefs, nor does it blindly select random philosophical positions. Instead, the mind is a highly complex interdependent set of processes. 

    Individual beliefs are the result of these processes in interaction with sensory data perceived naturally from the environment. Natural selection cannot take individual beliefs in some kind of literal sense, but can only select processes that are more or less able to produce good beliefs from the information received. Remember, if your beliefs about the world are true, then in principle you should be able to use these beliefs for tested empirical predictions. 

    What consequences typically follow specific actions under specific conditions? In the same way, in contrast, if the predictions of your beliefs could not make the expected result, then by definition such beliefs should be false. This is a pragmatic scientific measure for the truth, absolutely coordinated with naturalistic philosophy. Therefore, we can assume, by definition, the existence of a very fundamental connection between true beliefs and general reproductive success. 

    Natural selection does strongly favor the development of cognitive abilities that are qualitatively capable of producing many true beliefs. Note that the process does not even have to be perfect. All that he needs to do is ultimately collect enough true beliefs about the world in order to contribute to making good decisions throughout his life. At the same time, he must reject enough false beliefs in order to avoid catastrophic failures. 

    If errors are made, then alas.All that remains the natural selection is to wait for something better in the next repetition. In any case, it is perfectly reasonable to expect that the natural process will be generally reliable, even though it is fallible. Then, as Alvin Planning notes ... Seriously?Alvin Planning?The same Alvin Planning that once stated, and I quote: “It is absolutely right, rational, reasonable and adequate to believe in God without any evidence or argument at all.” Are you sure you want to philosophically rely on the arguments of this person? Philosophical naturalism slides into a vicious circle, Where is your belief that naturalism is true, entails that you are a product of evolutionary naturalism alone, And therefore, all your beliefs are programmed in you to help your survival, including your belief that naturalism is true. 

    I choose to believe what I have been programmed to believe! (believe = be convinced) Let's assume for a minute that this course of thoughts is absolutely valid. I will simply replace naturalism with “monistic idealism” because it is IP's favorite worldview. Your belief that monistic idealism is true entails that you are a product of a mentally created reality in the mind of God, And therefore, all your beliefs are programmed in you by God, including the belief that monistic idealism is true. 

    My God, it's a vicious circle! Therefore, by the logic of Inspiriting Philosopher himself, we have just exposed his favorite theology. Obviously, something is terribly wrong here.The most obvious problem is that the IP can completely not understand the difference between circular thinking and basic internal consistency. Because, yes, if you are committed to naturalism, even the IP definition, then it is reasonable to suppose that purely natural forces are capable of giving rise to human cognitive abilities. 

    If these abilities are reliable in the production of true beliefs with time, It should obviously follow from this that people can once come to the true conclusion that naturalism itself is true. This is not a vicious circle, a nonsense, it is called self -conservation, it is a good thing. But of course, it's even worse. Starting from the very first premise, IP gives the statement “I am convinced that naturalism is true.” But as we have already discovered, using his own encyclopedic quotation, naturalism is not a specific belief about anything, but rather a formal statement of methodology. 

    To say that you are a naturalist simply means that you are inclined to evaluate synthetic propositions through the methods of empirical science, and not through some naive a priori systems of armchair philosophy. He does not say anything about the fundamental nature of reality itself, but only keeps you within the framework of a specific methodology in the study of claims about reality. The statement “I am convinced that naturalism is true” was never pronounced at all a competent naturalist, because it is technically not the correct formulation at all. 

    The correct formulation would be something like this: “I choose to evaluate the truth of statements through the methods of naturalistic science.” But hey, let's ignore that problem too and just let the IP definition be accepted. Naturalism is the view that there are no supernatural entities, and that evolution is responsible for literally everything about us. Please now tell me how specifically IP represents people generally came to this conclusion? Because, as far as I can say, he apparently thinks that all naturalists around the world simply take their position as some kind of sudden axiomatic proclamation. 

    As if there are no external justifications for this view. But instead of challenging an obvious example of this vicious circle, IP instead leads us through some confusing course of thoughts that no one has ever affirmed in the history of science. Naturalism is true because all my beliefs are programmed in me to help me in survival, Which are true only because I am a product of only evolutionary naturalism, which in turn is true, because naturalism is true. 

    Remember that the reason why naturalism rejects supernatural entities is because the idea itself is fundamentally meaningless. How do you prove the existence of an essence that, by definition, has no parameters and no empirical manifestations? Therefore, it is obvious that the rationale for naturalism is not “because nature programmed me to believe in naturalism”, but not the position of arbitrary presumption for no good reason. 

    The course of logic here is not a closed circle, but actually contains completely reasonable justifications, which are generally not dependent on the statements provided here. Several experts have discovered this sequence. Philosopher Richard Rorty said:... Look, appeal to authority, what a charm. Time writes that biologist D. M. Smith "...never understood why organisms have feelings..." Look, another appeal to authority, and this time it is a frank argument from ignorance!Two logical errors in one! Some random man that you have never heard of, does not understand feelings, Therefore, all biology is absolutely unable to explain them.You wanted to say that? Even the great Charles Darwin worried: “I always have a terrible doubt as to the extent to which the convictions of the human mind, which evolved from the minds of the lower animals have any value or reliability." This is the third brainless appeal to authority IP has made in 30 seconds. 

    All this demonstrates is that apparently Charles Darwin did not have the best understanding of the philosophy of mind or the philosophy of science. And why would he?William James officially did not represent pragmatism to the world before 1898, 17 years later than writing this letter. So what's the difference? What is this supposed to prove? But of course, an obvious objection to this: "Is it a correct and true description of reality not the most useful for survival?" Of course, an organism with reliable cognitive abilities and knowledge of what is true will have the most optimal way of surviving. 

    Therefore, evolution will take away the abilities that are aimed at knowing the truth. This is the moment when it becomes painfully obvious to me that incoming philosopher does not have a functional understanding of the basic epistemology. Therefore, before continuing this discussion, we must clarify several false representations. It is important to understand that when we are talking about “truth”, we are not talking about some separate metaphysical quality of reality itself. 

    Technically, what we really are talking about, this is about the property of statements (judgments). In other words, statements can be true or false, but there is no such thing as the primary essence of truth, woven into the fabric of space and time. Speaking more formally, the “meaning of truth” is classically defined as a member of the binary set containing elements of “truly” and “false”. The purpose of this set is to serve as a kind of marking for linguistic statements to help us measure their epistemological correctness. 

    What exactly this means is open to some interpretation, but we can give it a strict definition through a mechanism called Truth Assignment. Formally, again, the purpose of truth, also called “assessment of truth” or “interpretation”, is defined as a function of comparison between many simple linguistic statements and many binary values of truth. Pragmatic empirical rationalism, he is science, he is also naturalism - this is a clearly defined system of functions of prescribing truth, in which there are no problems from arguments from this video. 

    The necessary, although not sufficient, measure of the truth of synthetic judgments (statements) is the principle of empirical predictability. If some judgment is true, then we must be able to use this judgment to make decisions with the expectation of predictable empirical consequences. Therefore, we cannot “prove” that any synthetic judgment “truly” with absolute reliability, but we can expect specific characteristics from such judgments, if we find them. 

    Thus, if some system of judgments is not able to prove itself through reliable empirical predictions, then we can reliably say that such a system is erroneous. You can complain about any details, if you like, this is a wide definition of a synthetic purpose of truth, according to most interpretations of scientific naturalism. "Supernaturalism" (supernaturalism), in contrast, has no truth-assignment functions at all, and cannot even be considered consistent. 

    Never in the history of philosophy and science, our understanding of something has been improved through the assumption of supernatural entities. Therefore, evolution will select the abilities that are designed to know the truth. However, the planning foresaw this objection, And he explained that the probability of this will be small or we should remain agnostics about the truth of naturalism. It's not a question of probability, dunce, it's a question of definition! The true synthetic judgment is philosophically measured by its ability to logically form solutions with the expectation of predictable empirical consequences. 

    If any empirical predictions are not able to produce the expected result, then by definition this belief is now false. In what logical universe does the ability to predict and shape the future have a low correlation with reproductive success?! First, there is no necessary certainty between what is useful and what is true. No one has ever defended that the usefulness is equivalent to truth, but only that empirical predictability should be an obligatory parameter of truth. 

    Not only is this argument an absolute strawman, but Inspiriting Philosophy even knows it. I know what he knows, because I personally explained to him this particular understanding long before creating his video. Therefore, IP is not only wrong in his explanation of basic epistemology, but he is also deliberately lying about it. The pragmatic scientific view of truth has always been based on the idea that empirical predictability is a necessary but not sufficient measure of the truth of synthetic propositions. 

    You should not apply all judgments to something practical or useful in order to call them true. However, for a belief to ultimately give rise to practical application, it must probably contain at least some reasonable approximation to the truth, right? Perhaps not perfect and not in every detail truly, but precisely closer to truth than alternatives. Let's conduct a small mental experiment.Consider a possible world where everything that I am convinced of the Universe is constantly categorically false. 

    However, every time I make a decision on the basis of these beliefs, the consequences are still as predictable and desirable for me. In the same way, every time I embody any true belief in action, the result is never predictable at all and is not desirable for me. I ask you, in such a world, does it even make sense to call my beliefs false? And if so, why would I ever want to believe in anything true? I could live all my life, having absolutely false beliefs about everything, and it would only be better for me. 

    Therefore, yes, we must conclude that, although this is not quite the same, but true beliefs necessarily correlate with utility and reproductive success, isn't it? Something can be useful, but not to be true.Take the astronomy of Ptolemy.For centuries, this model has been used by us for navigation and in star maps. It was a useful, but not a true description of reality.And of course, later it was replaced by a more correct model. 

    Tell me, dear incoming philosophy, how specifically would you refute the geocentric model of our solar system? Do you really think that a supernatural immaterial force is responsible for planetary motion? Maybe Jesus told Copernicus in a dream that the sun is in the center of the solar system? Or maybe you just think that geocentric models have systematically failed to make reliable empirical predictions? Well, which are accepted in pragmatic scientific naturalism. 

    Don't forget that the primary reason people rejected heliocentrism in the first place was precisely because it violated the supernatural bias of religious dogma! This is not naturalism censored to the discoveries of Galileo, but the intangible supernatural beliefs of the Roman Catholic Church. How dumb do you have to be for your best example of naturalism's failures to actually be one of its greatest triumphs?! However, if naturalism is true, then our knowledge can be similar to the astronomy of Ptolemy.Those.Just a useful model that helps us in the world. 

    Yes, a model that was proved false through methods of naturalistic science, and which religious fanatics like you refused to let go of because of their a priori supernatural beliefs! Again, what process do you have to measure the truth of synthetic judgments that works better? You are the one arguing against naturalism, so why don’t you show us all exactly how you would refute Ptolemy’s astronomy without the use of naturalism and naturalistic methods. 

    Therefore, only because our knowledge works in practice, this does not make them the truth about reality. Take another example, "Kalia", specifically color.In nature, objects reflect electromagnetic waves, Which fall into the human eye and create biochemical signals that are transmitted to the brain, creating neural patterns in the primary visual bark. If naturalism is true, then the brain somehow creates color from this data as a useful model. 

    The waves themselves have no color.The color, as John Locke said, is a “second” quality or “contents of the mind”. Waves of different lengths are perceived by the eyes and recreated in the brain. In the absence of brain, color does not exist, so color is just a useful model created by the brain, and not something that really exists in nature. What does the IP even bring us down?It seems he claims that, according to naturalism, color is simply a subjective sensory perception. 

    It does not exist in the objective sense of the word, but simply manifests itself as a purely mental construct. Fine.III?Should it be controversial?Or sad? This is just basic color theory. Everyone already knows that color does not really exist as an internal quality of real objects. So what is the point?What are alternatives?How does the postulation of supernatural entities change any of this? Even if magic is real and God is in charge, color would still only exist as a subjective human perception. 

    And if the brain does this with color, then we can also declare that it does it with our knowledge. They are not necessarily truth, but simply a useful model that we are programmed to consider the truth to help us survive. At this stage, Inspiriting Philosophy simply begins to repeat the same absurd arguments against the concept of naturalism that it invented. All this can be generalized by the phrase: this person does not have an understanding of the basic epistemology. 

    He loves to throw around the word "truth" all the time, but makes no attempt to define what truth is, or how we should recognize truth when we observe it. He also complains a lot that naturalism cannot provide us with absolute knowledge about objective reality, Despite the fact that skepticism and phalybilism are already fundamental principles adopted by philosophers and scientists. He does not offer any alternative methodology that could do something better, But he only constantly repeats that true knowledge about objective reality can not correlate with reproductive success. 

    Stop and ask yourself why you have any beliefs?(believe in anything) What is the difference from the fact that the information in your head is true? The only significant explanation is that we can ultimately use this information as a guide to our actions. Decisions based on true beliefs will show themselves in the form of controlled predictable events, And decisions based on false beliefs will eventually fail in this purpose. 

    Any beliefs that do not manage any actions at all, even in principle, are a useless rhetorical set of sounds. They do nothing, and therefore there is no difference whether they are true or false. This is what pragmatic scientific naturalism does the highest measure of all philosophical truth.This is the only system of "at least some" functional significance. If you cannot provide your arguments within the framework of such a methodology, then by definition you are not reasonable. 

    At that moment when the incoming philosopher rejected pragmatism, he simply broke any philosophical connection between beliefs, actions and consequences. Therefore, it makes no difference what alternatives he could offer, because the very idea of ​​\u200b\u200bcoming up with them amounts to empty sophistry. I can completely recognize his whole position, and literally nothing in my life will change as a result. 

    This is how hopeless his position is.Even if he wins, he will lose anyway. [Translated vk.com/id79920293] 