<h1> Logical_Possibility_-_Where_Do_I_Even_Begin_(1) </h1>

    One of the best reasons to create videos here on YouTube is the opportunity to discuss deep philosophical issues with a real community of sincere people who share common interests. I love to interact with you guys and read your critical reviews, because this is a great way to find mistakes in my understanding and correct them in order to prevent them in the future. But there is one thing that I do not cease to be amazed - this is when people openly boast of their competencies as "expert philosophical thinkers" only to provide the dumbest rebuttals imaginable. 

    For example, we consider the YouTubera “Philosophy Lines”, which has the following about the cycle of “philosophical failures” and about “New Atheism” in general: The mistakes he makes in his videos illustrate well the tendency in New Atheism to rely on popular writers like Dawkins, Harris and Michael Shermer... ...instead of serious philosophers such as Plantinga, Macchi, Oppy and Smith. Well, it is obvious that Mr. Philosopher Lines represents himself as a very sophisticated intellectual philosopher. 

    And this is generally normal if you want to think so.But, really, a brother, if you inflate yourself to a similar academic level, then you must have really powerful and reasonable criticism. Come on, show me, genius. In his video "Philosophical Failures of Christian Apologetics, Part 3", Anti-Citizen demonstrates that he does not understand the concept of God as presented by modern theists such as Swinburne, Craig and Plantinga. 

    I will quote Swinburn from the "existence of God." Quote: "Almighty God is able to do everything that is logically possible."The end of the quote. So, it’s good, it seems that the philosopher Lines has problems with my declared definition of omnipotence as “an unlimited ability to do anything”. Why?Because, apparently, this is not the definition used by “modern teists”, As if all Christianity is completely monolithic in relation to the idea of the “omnipotence” of God, right? Of course, this is a straw stuffed theist, who does not claim that omnipotence is the ability to do everything, including logically impossible. 

    It is logically impossible to move an immovable object, so the inability of God to do this does not violate his omnipotence, correctly defined as the ability to do everything that is logically possible. Therefore, an attempt to anti -itism to show that omnipotence is logically contradictory, and therefore God cannot exist, is false. And it's all.We can say this generalization of his entire answer. 

    My stated definition is not his preferred definition, so I'm just an incompetent idiot who needs to get off the internet. Praise to heaven that we have a philosopher Lines to put me in place. Which brings us to the establishment of a new series of videos called "Where Do I Even Start?" Where I will just angrily pour out the self -confident assholes who think that they are God's gift for philosophy. 

    Because this answer is so blatantly idiotic that I almost don't know where to start. For example, for starters, when it comes to the idea of the type of “omnipotence”, then there really is no such thing as the “correct” definition. There are only “good” definitions and “bad” definitions. For example, if you look at the Wikipedia article on omnipotence, you will already find several variations for this word, plus who knows how many more, scattered throughout the relevant literature. 

    And so it coincided, “absolutism” is a completely valid concept that many Christian philosophers and laity have historically used. Therefore, if the definition of this word I proposed turned out to be different from your definition, then it’s good for you, Phil! All that means is that my further arguments do not relate to you, right?What are the problems with this? But this does not free you from the fact that other people definitely adhere to my definition and deserve consideration. 

    And, as we all know, the “absolute” omnipotence is definitely a bad concept of God, because it becomes a victim of the paradox of the stone. Ideas that if God can do everything, then let's see how God creates a stone is so heavy that even God Himself cannot raise it. The whole point of the paradox is simply to show that some definitions for God are obviously logically insolvent. Therefore, if theists are careless with their definitions, then I can axiomatically disprove the existence of God through the use of logical force alone. 

    As if you did not see the forest behind the trees. But even if you ignore all this. One thing that boggles my mind about this answer is that even if we accept the "modern academic" definition for omnipotence, it still doesn't solve this paradox, it just changes the wording a little. And what is even more shameful, how easy it is to prove it. Just take a piece of paper, write “logical capabilities” above and start making a list. 

    For example, paragraph one: is it logically possible or not to create stones? Well, of course possible.There is no internal contradiction in this statement, so it goes to the list. Clause two: is it logically possible to raise stones?And again, yes.We make it to the list. Point three: is it logically possible to create a stone that has the specific characteristic of being "too heavy for its creator"? Is this a logically possible action or not? It absolutely kills me how many people struggle with this simple question. 

    Despite the fact that I personally performed this action quite calmly, and you can also. Therefore, this should be axiomatically be a logically possible thing for me. And if it is logically possible to do it to me, then it must be a logical thing that can be done. Therefore, she goes to the list.And if she goes to the list, then by definition, she qualifies as a specific thing that God can do. It's really that simple. 

    But of course, there is a problem.How can God raise any limited stone, but at the same time have a specific ability to create a limited stone that He cannot raise? This is a contradiction, right? The ability to do everything that is logically possible, apparently is not a logically possible thing. Therefore, I wildly apologize if it sounds sharply for all these "modern serious philosophers", but the paradox is still here, idiots, you haven't solved a damn thing. 

    Therefore, really, Phil, whose philosophical ignorance was exposed here? You obviously did not comprehend the whole topic, because all you did was replaced one paradox with another. For someone who claims to only read "serious philosophers", how is it possible that you haven't come across Bertrand Russell? Because if you actually did your homework on this topic, then you would know that the omnipotence paradox is simply a variant of Russell's Paradox. 

    Does the very set of all sets contain themselves that do not contain themselves? There is no logically permitted answer to this question, and there are clearly understandable explanations why this is so. You see, the reason why omnipotence is such a bad idea is because it is based on the principle of so-called "Unlimited Understanding" is essentially a “name it anything and God can do it” approach. 

    And this turns out to be a logical and mathematical theorem that any theory that contains the slightest hint of an unlimited understanding must be contradictory. Therefore, when Christians try to get out of the paradox of omnipotence, stating that God can only do what is logically possible They still do not solve the fundamental problem. It still contains elements of an unlimited understanding.And all that I need to do to destroy this option is just to feed him himself. 

    Notice that this is exactly what the stone paradox achieves by simply asking what happens when God sets himself against himself. This is a perfectly valid question in any other context, so why is it so difficult for a deity? The reason for this is obviously because God himself is not strictly defined enough. He literally cannot do anything that turns on him, without creating a paradox. For example, let's assume that God has an endless power. 

    Well, then what will happen if he simply presses his right hand with his left hand in the form of a single arm wrestling?Paradox, that's what will happen. Infinity minus infinity is not a logically working thing. Or even better, maybe you will say that an omnipotent creature cannot fail in any task. Well, then what will happen if God just plays chess with him? By definition, any outcome is necessarily a logical failure in delivering a mat to himself. 

    Therefore, we can conclude with absolute logical accuracy that God cannot exist, simply because the characteristics associated with this word are not internally agreed. And if it was still not bad enough, it turns out that we can apply the same principle to other alleged characteristics of God and come to very similar paradoxes. For example, we consider the idea of “omnivor” of God, which is often defined as the ability to know everything that you can know. 

    Or maybe you define it as perfect knowledge of all truths. Well, again, we have another form of a naive universal set based on unlimited understanding. So ask yourself, “What can God know that includes himself?” Oddly enough, this is how we arrive at Gödel’s famous “Incompleteness Theorem.” For any axiomatic system of the logic of utterances capable of making basic arithmetic, there are certainly true statements in this system that cannot be proved. 

    The reason is again in the same internal vulnerability to self -referential denial. For example, one well -known application of this principle is called the “stopping problem” in computer sciences. In a computer program with well -known input data, can God tell me whether it will stop or not when I launch it? Note that this is a completely simple question, with a guaranteed outcome that physically must happen. 

    But, no matter how strange it may sound, the answer to this question is in reality: no! Even if we have full access to the source code, there are still simple computer programs, the parameters of which cannot be predicted in advance. All you need to do is use the prediction of God as input data for the program, and then just tell the computer to make the opposite. Therefore, by definition, the outcome will always be different from what God predicted. 

    This means that whatever God predicts will definitely be wrong. Therefore, it doesn’t matter what kind of smart God in your opinion, in reality, there are true statements about the world that cannot be known, Because the act of their knowledge itself is what makes them false. In conclusion, if you're going to brag about your amazing academic credentials as a "serious philosopher", The smallest that you could do was offer an argument that would not have been completely exposed almost a hundred years ago. 

    Unlimited naive universal definitions of sets are bad, because they are always undermined on self -referential conclusions. Therefore, any attempt to define God in this way is logically guaranteed to contain paradoxes. Therefore, dear Mr. Philosopher Lines, instead of reading books of especially gifted philosophers such as planki, Craig and Swinburne, Perhaps you should try to read more Russell, Gödel and Turing.Thank you for watching. 

    [Translated vk.com/id79920293] 