<h1> Philosophical_Failures_of_Christian_Apologetics,_Part_4_Word_Games </h1>

    I love Startrek and everything connected with it.Especially the tribbles. In general, I love tribbles so much that I want them to be real. Moreover, I know that the tribblars are real, and I can prove it. Prerequisite 1: Tribble is small, hairy mammals, usually spherical. PROPRAME 2: Tribbles are born pregnant. Prerequisite 3: Tribbles aggressively react in the presence of clingones. PROPRAME 4: If the tribblars did not exist, then they could not aggressively react in the presence of the Clingons. 

    Therefore, tribblars exist, right?In the end, how can tribbls hate clinings if the tribblars do not exist somewhere in the real world to hate them? The logic is impeccable and undeniable!Well, where then, damn it, my tribbble? Obviously, there is a problem.And it consists in the fact that you cannot just walk and “determine” things into reality. Because when I argue that the tribblars hate the clinings, I actually do not claim that physical tribblars physically hate physical clingons in a real, physical world. 

    In fact, I say that if I ever encounter a small hairy mammal with “incorrigible” properties to be born pregnant and react violently to the clingons, then this creature can be called "tribel." The definition truth is not the same as descriptive truth, and it is necessary to apply different rules for justification in each of these categories. Remember that I am free to determine the properties of the tribbles in any way as I like, and these definitions are 100%true, simply because "I said so." But at the moment when I try to say that something “exists”, I move to the descriptive statement of reality, where the epistemological rules are now completely different. 

    Thus, although philosophers can constantly argue that they are exactly all these rules, but at least some rules are quite well established. Good descriptive statements should be agreed, consistent and inductive; Good descriptive statements should have the ability to explain a specific phenomenon simply and effectively; And good descriptive statements should allow me to make some physical choice in the real world, which leads to the desired result. 

    We can logically “deduction” of the tribbles all day, but absolutely nothing of this is important until I physically take one of them in my hands. And this leads us to the next philosophical failure of Christian apologetics: The idea that you can somehow “prove” synthetic judgments, just sitting in a chair and very hard to think about them. Somewhere in the depths, Christian apologists should understand that there is no real evidence for their “spiritual” statements, But psychologically, these people are programmed to never recognize this openly under any circumstances. 

    Therefore, instead, they have to resort to confusing verbal games designed to rationalize their beliefs in the face of the obvious absence of something tangible. And nothing demonstrates it better than an ontological argument in favor of the existence of God, which usually sounds something like this: “We can generalize this argument as follows.Prerequisite 1: It is possible that the most great creature, also known as God, exists. 

    2: If the existence of the greatest creature is possible, then the most great creature exists in some possible world. 3: If the most great creature exists in some possible world, then it exists in all possible worlds. 4: If the greatest creature exists in all possible worlds, then it exists in the actual world. 5: Therefore, the most great creature exists in the real world. 6: Therefore, the most great creature exists. 

    7: Therefore, God exists. If this argument sounds to you, such as no more than a bunch of confusing nonsense, then you are absolutely right. It is as if Christians are deliberately trying to hide their obvious empirical failure under the cover of verbose rhetorical jargon. Sometimes Christians even try to formalize it in accordance with the rules of modal logic, as if it is somehow magically added to him legitimacy. 

    But no matter how this argument was served, it is easy to see that all this is nothing more than a desperate attempt to make God with words, instead of demonstrating God with the help of evidence. Just take a look at the very first premise and ask yourself: what is the “greatest creature” in general? Because, as far as I know, “greatness” is not some kind of inalienable physical parameter of things that we can objectively verify. 

    But, ignoring this, Christians usually simply accept this because God is the "greatest conceivable" of all possible creatures - that God, by definition, is the coolest, most amazing, awesome entity that can only be represented;The most great creature. But if I asked you what the “greatest conceivable whole number”, then how would you even answer this? Because at the moment when you think that you have found a suitable candidate, I can immediately do better, just taking your number and adding a unit. 

    That is why every time you think that you have determined all the properties of the greatest of conceivable creatures, All I need to do is add the condition that “plus my creature can beat yours,” and I immediately found something “great”. Thus, it is obvious that the very idea of “the greatest conceivable to something” is completely inconsistent and inconsistent initially. But this does not matter, because the only real goal in all these “great” conversations is to try to pull the statement that “existence is greater than non -existence”, As if in itself the property of “being incredibly cool” automatically implies physical presence in the real world. 

    Of course, Christians do not say this in this form, but instead dress it in a sophisticated technical term called “necessary existence” - Literally, that the very idea of God contains the requirement that He must exist. Therefore, instead of spending time on analysis of a pile of meaningless premises, all that we really need to do is to rewrite the argument in essence: PROPRAME 1: God needs to exist.2: Therefore, God exists. 

    This is really all that all this is reduced to.God, by definition, is the greatest creature, And the maximum greatness is inextricably determined by the property of the necessary existence. This is an exemplary example of a classic logical error called a “vicious circle” or the adoption of the conclusion in advance, or the presence of a conclusion among the prerequisites, But the guys with real doctoral degrees in philosophy invariably refuse to notice this to this day. 

    Remember that this should be one of the greatest, crushing arguments in favor of God, which the Christian "intellectual elite" has ever come up with, But there are hardly three minutes to show how completely ridiculous all this is. But it also shows a deliberate game by the words that Christians will use to “argue” what they cannot demonstrate. Sometimes they even try to use the “laws of logic” themselves as evidence of the existence of God, as in a transcendental argument about the existence of God. 

    But pay attention to how we again have an overly bloated philosophical game of words intended to conclude God, sitting in a chair. Only this time, the argument greatly flirts with the philosophical concept, known as "Platonic realism" - The idea that conceptual tools, such as logic and mathematics, must necessarily have a certain “integral existence” in themselves, regardless of space and time. This is an old idea that causes some attractive feelings, but it is still absolutely erroneous in all respects. 

    For example, we consider such a simple mathematical concept as a “symmetrical law of equality”: If a = b, then b = a.Pretty simple, right?How can this be anything other than “absolute truth”? It seems to be a kind of fundamental, transcendental property of the Universe itself, isn't it? But in reality, this is completely wrong.When you really realize the essence, the symmetrical law of equality is nothing more than an axiomatic statement - The rule that we have established for manipulating mathematical symbols on the basis of determining equality. 

    And all that reads this specific rule is that the truth of equality does not depend on the order of its expression. The fact that this is not some kind of deep philosophical secret is even more humiliating for Christians. Any decent textbook on elementary mathematics will immediately openly introduce you to the fundamental axioms of Algebra - the rules created by the human mind with a specific purpose of consistent manipulation of mathematical expressions. 

    That is why we say that mathematics are “invented”, and not “open”. The only real “discovery” that occurs in mathematics is the strict application of the rules leading to the corresponding conclusions. Mathematical theories are really “justified” only as long as they avoid contradictions. If they are useful for describing real physical systems, then the better But Christian philosophers really try to argue that “mathematical entities”, such as numbers and circles, have “truly transcendental existence” in themselves. 

    It is important to understand that the entire area of deductive logic is no different from this. All that we declare “true” through logical deduction, truly only according to the standard of compliance with axioms. For example, consider the linguistic structure of typical syllogism: PROPRAME 1: Vorf - Clingon.PROPRAME 2: All tribblars hate clingones.Therefore, all the tribblars hate Vorf. This is an absolutely sound logical conclusion, which is completely natural from the premises. 

    Well, so what?All that we have done has determined a certain arbitrary set of the only property to be marked as “clingons”, And then the Worf was defined as a random element in this set. Then we determined another arbitrary set of “to be things that the tribblars hate”, and then turned on the clicons as a subset inside. Then the conclusion follows immediately and logically, through the use of a very simple axiom from an elementary theory of sets: If a is the subset B, and B is the subset C, then A is the subset C. 

    Voila!All tribblars hate Vorf, despite a significant obstacle that all of them do not exist in the real world. This is just a game designed to replace real words with basic templates. Thus, so far the countless "particularly gifted" philosophers love to remind us that the logical and mathematical truths are "pure and absolute" It will be difficult for you to find at least one apologet that has at least some idea of what the logic really is or where mathematics actually came from. 

    The only reason they generally make this argument is that it creates the grounds for proclaiming certain knowledge about things that exist outside our sensory experience of the natural world.Well, you know, for example, God. They generally refuse to understand that chess and poker are created in absolutely the same way as algebra and geometry: You draw up the rules and see what is happening! Nobody in his right mind would never seriously say that Shah and Mat or full house really “exist” outside of space and time, But this is what Christians do when they argue for the same for logic and mathematics. 

    The most important principle of Platonic realism is a dead, useless idea, and this was known for decades. Remember that when we affirm that such a thing as “God” exists, we make a synthetic judgment. This means that the only way to measure its meaning is to make a prediction for some special sensory experience. Therefore, the statement that God exists, without any possibility of empirical manifestation, is ultimately simply a meaningless set of sounds. 

    How can we know that it exists if we even in principle cannot find it? How can we confirm its properties?What would change physically if there really were two gods instead of one? How, damn it, we objectively distinguish genuine physical reality from unbridled fantasies of a bunch of insane fanatics? Because God, who can be concluded only through argumentation, and not demonstrated through sensory experience, is functionally equal to the absence of God in general. 

    [Translated vk.com/id79920293] 