<h1> Philosophical_Failures_of_Christian_Apologetics,_Part_11_The_Holy_Spirit </h1>

    Imagine yourself in the place of a typical truly believing Christian. You visit the church, study your Bible and accept Jesus Christ as our Lord and the Savior. Let us also imagine that you are a philosophically sophisticated person who loves to study arguments from all sides of the dispute. Therefore, you come across a video series of a video called "Philosophical failures of Christian apologetics" And with pleasure you decide to look at them all from beginning to end. 

    For the sake of further reasoning, let's just assume that everything in this cycle is absolutely flawless in the presentation and, therefore, completely convincing. All these loud, sophisticated arguments in favor of the existence of God are now officially exposed to your personal satisfaction. The “burden of evidence” lies on theists, who should positively prove the existence of God, and all of them decisively could not cope with this burden. 

    Moreover, you even learned how science actually explains the development of religion as a purely natural by -product of human psychology and cultural group selection. Of course, given all these philosophical circumstances, a true believer, like you, must find sufficient reasons to abandon his faith and accept more secular views, right? In fact, not, because if you really were a “true believing” Christian, then all these evidence, arguments and philosophical constructions would not mean anything. 

    You did not admonish yourself in your faith, which means that you definitely cannot be reasoned from it. True Christian faith is not based on intellectual grounds, but on the incorrigible “evidence of the Holy Spirit”: “And my view here is as follows.The way I knew the truth of Christianity is based primarily on the testimony of the Holy Spirit in my heart, And this gives me a self -confirming way of knowing the truth of Christianity, completely separated from evidence. " “But I think that the way we fundamentally know that our faith is true is through the internal evidence of the Holy Spirit. 

    My faith in Christ is not based on arguments and evidence, although I have arguments and evidence. It is based on the internal evidence of the Holy Spirit. " “And therefore, if in some historically determined circumstances the evidence available to me will turn against Christianity, I do not think this will refute the testimony of the Holy Spirit. " And so we come to our 11th philosophical failure of Christian apologetics - The idea that warm and fluffy experiences can outweigh all the arguments of the mind, evidence and arguments of the opposite. 

    Such confessions are frighteningly common in the entire Christian world, and they tend to appear in several different versions. For example, look at the popular “statements of faith”, when Christian organizations openly boast of a priori confidence that is absolutely infallible and therefore cannot change under any circumstances. Some philosophers even tried to formalize this doctrine under the guise of sophisticated academic philosophy, as it was with the famous “reformed epistemology” by Alvin Planting. 

    Even ordinary and nominal Christians are often happy to support such a doctrine through a public statement that "nothing can shake my faith." But whatever it is formulated, the main message is always the same - I'm right.I know I'm right.I absolutely cannot be mistaken, and no words and actions will never convince me in the opposite. Therefore, ultimately it becomes clear that “Christian philosophy” is actually not at all a philosophy. 

    “Western philosophy”, taught at each modern university, is built on a valiant tradition of asking questions, challenging our assumptions, and then follow arguments where they did not. The apologists, on the other hand, apparently think that philosophy is built on a mechanical repetition of the statements of the Holy Doctrine, followed by the unshakable protection of this doctrine, no matter what. By the way, that is why apologists are called "apologists." This word itself comes from the Greek "apology", which means "speech in defense." Therefore, many apologetic organizations openly declare themselves literal "defenders of faith." This is wonderful if you are someone like a lawyer who, by law, is obliged to defend the client, but not when your goal is to find out the truth. 

    An honest study does not work if we do not actively seek out mistakes in our understanding, so that they can be corrected over time. Consider once again these classic “top 5” arguments that apologists love to defend so: "Ontological argument", "cosmological argument", “Teleological argument”, “Argument from the thin setting” and “Moral argument”. Ask yourself: What are the goals of these arguments serve? By their own admission, most apologists were actually convinced by any of these nonsense, so what makes them a naive impression that we should be convinced by them? They almost openly boast of that neither evidence nor arguments played any role in their beliefs, And only a combination of warm, fluffy sensations and pure willpower. 

    This is not a conscientious discussion, but an automatic recognition that Christian apologists are deliberately double, and they know this! It is paradoxical that apologists are so strangely restrained about all this “special evidence”, Because in principle, this is a really convincing argument. Because if God is real, and if God really wants to have a deep personal relationship with us, What is the best way to demonstrate this fact than to personally open yourself to your creations? This is all that the skeptical community required all this time - Empirically reproduced demonstration of the existence of God! Nevertheless, for some strange reason, both professionals and newcomers among apologists, as if with all their might try to avoid any mention of this before a skeptical audience. 

    Read any book, listen to any lecture or see any formal debate, And this is nothing more than an endless rhetoric about the root cause, maximum greatness and transcendental, intangible, non -spatial, timeless and so on. This “spirit”, if it is generally mentioned, is usually nothing more than a belated philosophical addition. But then ask the apologists directly, what ultimately convinced them to believe, And it is completely normal to suddenly hear stories about personal revelation from God Himself! It’s like an ace in a sleeve that finally solves the problem once and for all, but they always play it only when it costs nothing. 

    It can be thought that apologists collectively share an unspoken understanding that, “it can simply be”, that the Holy Spirit is not such a philosophically substantiated thing as they pretend. But what is the Holy Spirit really?Because if we are going to talk about this thing in serious details, it is important to establish what exactly this idea is. And according to the mainstream Christian doctrine, the Holy Spirit is just "the third face of the Holy Trinity." It turns out that in practice this means that any experience with the Holy Spirit is very literally a direct communication from God himself. 

    In the end, God is a single creature consisting of three completely separate, but equal personalities, each of which is also separately God. If all this seems a little strange to you, then just remember that this is an absolutely fundamental doctrine of orthodox Christianity. This is an unusual concept that began in the fourth century, when some guy had the impudence to claim that Jesus Christ was separated from the Father God and subordinate to Him. 

    You might think that such a banal element of theology can be discussed peacefully, but, obviously, it was an extremely heated and fierce political conflict. Fortunately, the facts on this issue were finally established with the help of the “voting on facts” traditions proven by centuries, which followed the standard state suppression of any further dissent. Therefore, it goes without saying that this is an absolutely consistent and trustworthy fact of God, which there can no longer be any further disputes. 

    If you still leave aside all this snowy com philosophical problems, then what is it specifically “get the experience of the Holy Spirit”? How can I recognize his presence?Can I sit next to him and somehow interact? Maybe talk to him or shake his hand?Does its presence have any measurable effect on the temperature? Or on air pressure?Or on a radiation background?Will he work miracles on demand? No, of course not.In the end, the spirit is an intangible creature, So, nothing of what he does will never give a tangible, empirical manifestation. 

    This is a classic sign of our old friend, “substantial dualism”, according to which the Universe is clearly divided into two completely separate categories of fundamental things. The first category of things is our usual material universe, consisting of atoms, quarks, electrons and photons, which do their job in accordance with the laws of physics in all space and time. The second category of things consists of the consciousnesses themselves, or "matter of the mind", Which, apparently, simply flutters around and thinks on its own, completely regardless of any physical laws or material interactions. 

    However, it can, apparently, interact with other matters of the mind, and this is exactly what this “personal experience of the Holy Spirit” is limited by extremely subjective impressions. For example, some people describe this spirit as “... barely noticeable invasions, Almost like a thought in your head, which was actually not your own, but was placed there by external power. ” Others can describe this as "... the innate awareness of the existence of God - as if we all had the sixth sense of the divine presence in the world around us." Some people report feelings of powerful euphoria, as if they were "overcoming the electric madness of pure joy." Others may indicate that they heard the voice of God directly, like a real sound from another person in the room. 

    Others can describe this as “burning in the chest” or “numbness of thought”. Some people even declare the ability to “speak languages”, as if the spirit masters their bodies and gives them the power to speak the language of angels. So, already from the threshold, the very idea of a “special evidence” from the Holy Spirit is already on a hopelessly shaky foundations. We cannot even talk about this spirit, at first not assuming huge mountains of dubious and incoherent doctrines, And each alleged contact with him is almost always vague. 

    Those who claim that they were experiencing him cannot agree with what it should be like, and what it is usually “like”, either boring ordinary or frighteningly insane. The only coordinated rule, apparently, is that “you just find out when you feel”, and as long as it leads you to good Christian deeds, the rest does not matter. But before it is disappointed to deny all this, it is important to recognize the fact that people who share these experiments are usually completely sincere. 

    Moreover, it is easy to find similar evidence from around the world and throughout history. Therefore, this phenomenon causes something, and it is important to ask yourself what specific reason can this be? Are these experiences the result of real supernatural communication?Or is it just another natural feature of a person? This may seem like a simple question, but you will be struck by how apologists can be incredibly difficult to distinguish between “experience” and “reason”. 

    We have many personal testimonies about these “spiritual contacts”, and all of them are immediately declared true on the principle of “mental incorrigibility” - I had experience, this experience was very unique, and therefore I decide to identify this experience as “a special evidence of the Holy Spirit”. However, it is already a completely different matter - to attribute such experiments to the external reason, that is, Telepathic communication with an extra -spatial, timeless, omnipotent creator of the Universe, who also turns out to be a biblical god. 

    This is already a “synthetic judgment”, which means that the rules of “appointment of truth” are now completely different. I find this amazing, as the guys with real doctoral in philosophy invariably experience difficulties with one of the most basic principles in all philosophy - In this case, with the principle of "skepticism in relation to the outside world." Everything that he says is that no synthetic judgment can never be really “cognized” with “absolute, unshakable confidence”, Because there will always be an infinite set of possible explanations for our sensory data. 

    In the best case, we can achieve only indicative conclusions, based on prevailing empirical data and on predictive models. Thus, even if thousands of people really pass through some intensive “spiritual experience”, this does not mean that we must immediately assume a supernatural reason for this, And also this assumption does not outweigh all further evidence and arguments forever. It is impossible to exaggerate the well -known fact that human sensory perception is easily allowed to deceive. 

    There are hundreds, if not thousands of well -documented illusions, heuristics, bias, distortions, hallucinations and disorders with which the cognitive systems of completely normal people abound. Many of these illusions are almost identical copies of the alleged manifestations of the Holy Spirit, And many other of them can even be caused on demand in the controlled laboratory conditions. Some Christians even openly recognize faith in real, literal “demons” who run around, imitating the Holy Spirit for their own sinister goals. 

    Therefore, it is quite reasonable to assume that Christians, like no one else, should feel especially motivated to carefully explore all this “special evidence”, Otherwise, we can all be trapped in the cunning deception of the devil himself. That is why people invented science. Despite the innate error of our subjective perceptions, it is still possible to generate real working knowledge with a high degree of practical confidence. 

    All we need to do is follow a few simple rules. For example, one of the most important rules in the philosophy of science is the principle of “reproduction”. In other words, if the Holy Spirit is really real, and if God really wants us to all feel His presence, Then, apparently, I do not have to just take your word for your word every time it happens. I personally should be able to reproduce this experience for myself, and there should be a simple procedure that I can follow in order to generate further experiments on demand. 

    Unfortunately, in this case this is not so.There is no universally prescribed method with which you can cause the Holy Spirit, And this means that there is no way to formally establish any causal relationship with his behavior. On the contrary, most meetings with the spirit seem completely random, as if God is a capricious child who shares his presence with only some people, but not with others. Even in those rare cases when a specific procedure is proposed, it inevitably fails to reproduce the expected results. 

    For example, one of the most striking illustrations of this problem can be found in the theology of the saints of the last days, which claims that everyone can get the experience of the Holy Spirit for themselves. All that needs to be done is to read the book of Mormon, reflect on her message, have a little faith, and then ask God in prayer, is it true. If everything is done correctly, then God supposedly will show you the truth personally through the power of the Holy Spirit. 

    Great.Now raise your hands, how many of you are Mormons, Nemormons and former Mormons have tried this, but did not experience the promised results immediately? Right.Millions of you!The vast majority of people who are trying to repeat this experiment can categorically cannot reproduce the result. Which leads us to another key principle of modern philosophy of science - “falsification”. If people consistently observe the formula you prescribed, and then cannot get the promised results, then we can immediately conclude that your statement is false. 

    It does not matter how elegant your theory can be, and it does not matter how well it makes you feel. The world officially does not work in accordance with the rules you described, which means that you are objectively and demonstrated mistaken. But what about people who still get the promised result?We cannot simply completely discount their experience. Maybe we just completed the procedure incorrectly, or maybe there are hidden variables that we simply could not take into account. 

    This is normal, that is why science has provided another rule to help us check their statements: “consistency”. In other words, if people really make the expected results, then, apparently, these results should be internally agreed with each other, right? But, of course, this is also not so in this case.For each Mormon, who claims that he knows the truth by the power of the Holy Spirit, There is an equal number of Baptists, Pentecostals, Jehovah's Witnesses and others who all say absolutely the same about their religions and with equal conviction. 

    However, all of them cannot be right, because the doctrines of salvation for one faith are often godless heresies for another. Which leads us to another fundamental principle in the philosophy of science - “savings” (also known as “razor of Occam”). In the presence of several explanations of the same phenomenon, each of which has the same explanatory power is always preferable to the one that has the smallest number of assumptions. 

    So, given the fact that people all over the world regularly have experiences of supposedly spiritual nature, then what explanation, in your opinion, makes more sense? What is a capricious God manifest itself in a completely random way, using inconsistent and subtle impressions to reinforce mutually incompatible conclusions? Or what, “can simply be”, people have a natural tendency to generate these experiments completely independently? Remember that this is still a completely reasonable question, even if the Holy Spirit is really real. 

    Therefore, let's be extremely generous and just suppose that a small subset of all these experiences is really completely legitimate. Obviously, apologists should still recognize the fact that millions of other people still have similar, but false experiments, for completely natural reasons. I myself personally experienced countless psychological anomalies, strong euphoria, deep feeling of guilt, Vague intuitive insights and even frank voices, but it never occurred to me that something of this was the result of a supernatural telepathy! It is completely normal to have such experiences, this is not something unhealthy, and almost every person receives them on a regular basis. 

    This quiet voice is in your head, taking care of you, encouraging you to make the right decisions;It was not a magical incorporeal spirit.It was you yourself all this time! There is much more in your head than pure conscious thinking. At any time, your brain is immersed in the perception of your environment, building ties and reaction to stimuli, And he does all this without direct permission from your conscious "I". 

    And this is very good.We cannot always afford luxury thoroughly pondering complex problems, but instead we should react at a particular moment in pure intuition. However, this same intuition is only as good as we train it, And that is why religious organizations are so persistently fighting to mix this intuition with supernatural prejudices. This is a deliberate trick, aimed at getting around our rational mind and replacing it with impulsive, uncritical humility. 

    So how do you think the apologists react when they face such an overwhelming advantage of contradictions, zero results and alternative theologies? Most of the time they do not even talk about it at all - as if it never occurred to them that there were other religions, Or that other believers can have the same conviction as their own, or that some people may simply honestly not be able to reproduce any “spiritual contacts”. 

    This is similar to the institutionalized rejection of ordinary human experience, when the spiritual manifestations of other people are simply ignored or denied. Then, in those rare cases when they are still recruited to admit this question, the answers are almost comical in their smug arrogance and frank contempt! For example, “reformed epistemology” adheres to the existence of “Sensus divinitatis”, or “Divine Feeling”, Which unequivocally reveals the existence of God to everyone. 

    And not just “some” God, notice, namely the Christian God from the Holy Bible. Thus, anyone who declares ignorance of the truth of Christianity “does not have an excuse” and therefore can be immediately rejected as a damned liar. Or, in another case, if they are really sincere, then this should be the result of a failure in their divine feeling -Almost like a certain “spiritual blindness”, when our congenital receptors of God simply clog in somehow. 

    However, the only thing that can allegedly cause such a problem is a sin, And this means that now we can reject all such people as a bunch of evil Hitler, who simply love evil more than God. Or in another case, if you still experience the Holy Spirit, but simply not in the same religious context as they, Then, obviously, you should be mistaken!Because the Holy Spirit is unmistakable for those who really feel it, And this means that everything you think you felt was surely some kind of spiritual fake. 

    Here it is, please.According to the mainstream Christian apologists, all those Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Gentiles, animists, atheists And all the rest throughout history who could not turn to Christianity, or spiritually blind, are intellectually dishonest, or simply frankly sinful. So let's stop walking around the bush and just summarize this doctrine, how is it? - We are right, you are wrong, and if you do not agree, then you are stupid and evil. 

    This is really an absolute foundation for most Christian apologists.They know this, and they recognize it. It is difficult to completely formulate how terrifying a similar doctrine can be. When people cease to recognize their own error, then this is only a matter of time when violent fanaticism enters the equation. By definition, dogmatic cannot be called to the mind, and a false doctrine can never be protected reasonably. 

    Therefore, the mind itself cannot settle any disputes, which leaves rough authority as the only working alternative. Which is even worse, the act of disagreement itself is interpreted not as a simple intellectual misunderstanding, but always as a moral decomposition. Unbelievers are automatically considered to be guilty of unsuitable crimes only because of their unbelief. Forcibly oppression, thus, is easily justified, which makes violent resistance inevitable necessity. 

    So, in the end, the Holy Spirit is another shameful bunch of philosophical failures, painted in socially dangerous tones. We are talking about the absolute, unshakable conviction in insane absurd doctrines, completely generated by fluffy subjective sensations, Which every competing religion on Earth can obviously reproduce, only then to lie about all this post -fact, pretending to be a serious academic dispute! This is a shameless betrayal of everything that is defended by Western philosophy. 

    This is the exploitation of vulnerable human psychology, it is a demonization of unbelievers, this is an excuse for violence And this is the rejection of all known standards of honest research. This does not allow any opportunity to correct errors, which means that any errors available will remain errors forever, because the mistakes mean nothing. Truth does not matter for these people, but only the imposition of conformism. 

    Even the very word "spirit" linguistically gives out the glaring absurdity of all this doctrine with giblets. Spirit (spirit) comes from the Latin word spiritus, meaning breathing and air. The Bible itself often mentions the Holy Spirit by name through the Greek word pneuma, Which also carries the meaning of breathing, wind and air. Even in the Jewish sections of the Old Testament, the Spirit of God is often mentioned as “Ruah”, which means breathing and wind. 

    This is not a random coincidence.Ancient cultures almost everywhere equalized the wind and breath with the idea of the spiritual essence of life. For example, the Chinese word to refer to spiritual life strength - “qi”, and it is also translated as air and breathing. Ancient Indian philosophy uses the Sanskrit word "prana" to describe a cosmic life force associated with breathing. Ancient -noskandinavian languages often used terms such as önd and andi, to designate breathing and soul. 

    The obvious explanation is that ancient people did not understand how the air works, and therefore they simply filled the gaps with any observations that they could. For example, air can be felt, but not to see, and strong breathing seems very similar to the wind. Living creatures tend to breathe a lot, and that which dies, generally stops breathing. The only natural conclusion is that the air itself should consist of a mysterious vital essence that animates living beings. 

    Thus, air, breathing and soul have become one thing, so one word was so often used to combine all three concepts. There are even the remains of this idea, manifested in our modern concept of “ghosts”, which are often depicted in the form of anthropomorphic clouds or translucent vapors. This definitely makes it clear that, despite all the sophisticated philosophical pretentiousness, the doctrine of the Holy Spirit is very literally nothing more than a shocking air. 

    [Translated vk.com/id79920293] 