<h1> Philosophical_Failures_of_Christian_Apologetics,_Part_7_Morality_Explained </h1>

    I bought it means ice cream the other day, and the cashier asked me $ 1.69. When I climbed into my pocket for a trifle, something completely unbelievable happened: I paid him and went about my business. This is strange, I know, because a more “natural” course of action is sharply jumping through the counter, pull his eyes, rape his corpse, and then set fire to the store. It’s just like some incorporeal cosmic spirit telepathically orders me to be polite with people. 

    At least this is what Christians want to convince us of, because, apparently, they cannot come up with any other efficient explanations Why should I refrain from violent attacks on completely strangers. And this leads us to the "moral argument" in favor of the existence of God. And although there are, of course, dozens of variations, but all of them, as a rule, share the same basic structure: “Here is a simple moral argument in favor of the existence of God. 

    PROPRAME 1: If God does not exist, then objective moral values and responsibilities do not exist. 2: Objective moral values and responsibilities exist. 3: Therefore, God exists. " This argument is wildly popular among religious apologists and was even one of K. & Nbsp; S. & Nbsp; Lewis. But what really makes this argument truly special is how completely perverted and incoherent he is at absolutely every step. 

    Even the wording itself gives out its amateurish origin, where the very first premise is written as a stupid counteractor. And yet, despite all the obvious failures, such arguments can very effectively isolate believers from all arguments and evidence of the opposite. Religions are very hard to work to intertwine themselves with the perception of absolute moral authority, Because of what a person’s refusal of his faith is often perceived as the equivalent of abandoning any sense of human decency at the same time. 

    Otherwise, why do believers constantly consider atheists as the least deserving of the trust of the minority throughout America? This is another deliberate psychological trick, designed to manipulate believers, so that they remain believers, and not necessarily in order to build a working proof of the existence of God. But what is “moral” in reality?Because, despite all these conversations about morality and values, it is surprisingly rarely someone really divides them into strict, consistent terms. 

    So, let's start with a simple observation that the foundation of all morality is entirely determined by the choice. That is why we tend to punish people only because they consciously decide to do either not to do, and never for what just happened. But it is no less important to understand that the choice itself does not have a practical meaning, unless a person tries to realize some desired result. 

    “Good” and “correct” elections are those that can reliably lead to a certain result, While the “bad” and “wrong” elections ultimately suffer a failure in achieving this goal. So, what specific goals are “moral” in nature, and which are not? This is another of those difficult philosophical issues that to this day cause all kinds of academic disputes. Nevertheless, despite all the disagreements, most people tend to agree that any consistent concept of a certain “moral” behavior should rotate around some final social interaction. 

    Morally “good” elections tend to manifest itself through desirable, pro -social consequences, While morally “evil” elections are those that tend to make the opposite. But whatever specific features are, it is important to always remember that the very concept of morality is completely pointless and insignificant without any form of “consistency” is based on it. However, oddly enough, most Christian philosophers reject this principle from the threshold, instead that morality is an objective characteristic of the Universe itself, like the law of gravity or the charge of an electron; And that even if the whole human race died out today, then certain laws of morality would still be absolutely true and universally binding on all reasonable creatures throughout space. 

    This is another of those tempting philosophical ideas, which is called "moral realism", And although it may seem attractive if you are leading to naive intuition, it completely suffers a failure without even starting. Because to say that something is morally “kind” or “evil” in itself, without any reference to goals or consequences, is simply incoherent nonsense. For example, just take and ask yourself: what should “objective moral value” should look like? For example, if someone told you that “human life has objective value” or that “human life is objectively good”, What does this mean?Is it assumed that “goodness” is a kind of radiation that simply comes from a person simply due to the fact that he lives? Can we quantify this “goodness” and measure it with moral thermometers? If so, what is the calibration standard?Does the life of cows have objective moral value in the same way? Or proteins?How much protein is needed to equal the moral value of one cow? How, damn it, can we empirically check all this in any efficient form? Obviously, we cannot do this!Because whenever we say that something “has value” or that something is “good”, we are not talking about some kind of internal physical quality of the thing itself. 

    Technically, in reality, we say that somewhere, somehow, a subjective agent arbitrarily decided to give the value of this thing in the form of a preferred desire for other things. That is why absolutely nothing in the entire universe can have any “objective moral value”, because the idea itself is an oximoron! It's like trying to ask what is the “objective value” of the dollar - She simply is not!“Value” does not exist without any “evaluator” that produces an “assessment”. 

    Thus, the assertion that human life has value simply means That, if there is a choice, subjective agents will be inclined to behave in such a way as to stimulate and maintain human well-being regarding anything else. But what about the assertion that there are things such as “objective moral duties”? In other words, what we “must do”, and what we “should not” do. Well, again, to say that someone should do anything, it means to say that there is a certain desirable situation that can be implemented under certain conditions through specific actions. 

    For example, if we want to grow our children happy, healthy, well -adapted adults, Then it inevitably follows from this that we probably should not subject them to torture in infancy. However, if we have absolutely no interest in strengthening the health, happiness and emotional well -being of children, Then now we really have no good reason to refrain from torture of children, right? Note that there is nothing objective in all this, with the exception of the fact that actions have consequences, And that people tend to find certain social results more desirable than others. 

    However, from the point of view of Christian apologetics, all moral responsibilities are absolutely unconditional always and everywhere. This is an empty, worthless tautology, in which the torture of children is simply declared “evil” as a fact, only for the only reason for pure cosmic dictatorship. And then, the only reason why we “should not” torture children is exclusively in the fact that this is “evil” -As if the simple presence of some arbitrary label of three letters should encourage immediate and unconditional submission in our behavior. 

    So, once again we are dealing with Christian apologists, putting forward another argument that was already failed outside of any meaningful understanding long before it began at all. But let's assume that we again feel generous and decide to immediately accept the whole philosophy of morality without objections. Can anyone now tell me what logical universe all this implies something, at least reminiscent of a single deity of classical monotheism? The very first prerequisite for this argument could have been just as successful that if apples do not grow on trees, then the moon is a bulb. 

    There is simply no logical connection between these two statements. However, when we listen to Christian apologists, this is obviously accepted by the granted that the only efficient source of objective morality is the direct dictatorship of the powerful supernatural agent. This is an absurd authoritarian point of view, known as the “theory of divine command”, In which the final measure of all good and evil in the entire universe is exclusively derived from the banal “I said” the invisible transgalactic celestial fairy. 

    Literally, objective moral values and responsibilities are determined exclusively by the whims and properties of a subjective agent! Thus, the moral argument in favor of the existence of God is not only completely inherent and doomed to failure initially, but it is also frankly circular. In the end, let's not forget that the whole meaning of the moral argument is primarily in pringing the existence of God. 

    But you cannot do this when morality itself is already predetermined by the implied assumption of the existence of God! It is like trying to prove that Elvis's car proves the existence of Elvis. The phrase “Elvis Machine” itself does not have an objective value until we establish the existence of Elvis;Not earlier. This is another exemplary example of a classic “vicious circle of argumentation”, and again, self -proclaimed “experts” in philosophy invariably fail to recognize this to this day. 

    But even ignoring all this, the only thing that makes this argument with such a truly impressive failure is the fact that Christians are specifically trying to prove the existence of Yahweh, the god of the Bible - The same God who openly and proudly approved some of the most egregious moral atrocities that we can only imagine. We are talking about God, who actively encourages: slavery, bloody sacrifices, human sacrifices, mizoginia, The mutilating of the genitals, genocide, murder of infants, thought crime, rape and death executions for the most harmless violations. 

    The very idea that the biblical God should serve as the highest standard of moral virtue is flaguily ridiculous! It practically gives a license to commit the most destructive, antisocial acts in the history of mankind. Or is it really just a coincidence that Christians-owners from the American South constantly appealed to the Bible itself as a moral justification for this practice? But who knows?Maybe Christians are right.Therefore, let's be generous again and immediately completely recognize the moral argument without objections. 

    And now?What changed?Because, even if God is really a source of all human morality, then how exactly can we verify any specific moral statements? In the end, it does not seem that God has ever left and really told someone that to torture children badly, so how do Christians even pretend, that they know the truth? From what we know, maybe God absolutely loves when people torture babies, and we all dangerously lag behind the necessary indicators in this matter. 

    This is perfectly consistent with all its other atrocities scattered throughout the Bible, so what objective empirical evidence can anyone at all offer, which would indicate the opposite on behalf of God? Or in general, even if God really went out and would give us direct verbal teams, so what from this? What is my objectively binding incentive to comply with this standard, and not to some other standard at my own choice? What can just stop me to say to God himself: “You sing shit and die!” And go continue to torture babies? Because even if the biblical god really turned out to be real, the only physical effect that He could ever have in any of my elections is to artificially distort their “price” and “benefit” post-fact. 

    What other goals can, in principle, serve paradise and hell, except to be embellished with a “whip and gingerbread”? These are literally awards and punishments designed to influence my decisions now, distorting their possible consequences later. That is, the foundation of almost all monotheistic doctrines is an open recognition that “consistency” is really the main driving force of all human moral behavior. 

    And we are talking not only about pro -social, altruistic consequences, but also about gross, unlimited personal interest. It is interesting that it is this assumption that is used by biheviorists in the formulation of the naturalistic theory of moral behavior of biological organisms. Because this is a demonstrated fact that personal interest in combination with social interdependence can lead and really leads to almost any form of “good” behavior observed in nature. 

    Life is not always a “play with a zero sum”, where individual success can be achieved only at someone else's expense. Instead, cooperation between organisms very often has a tangible positive effect on all involved sides, thereby increasing individual well -being and final reproductive success. Virtue can really be a reward itself. And this is not just some unfounded philosophical statement, but a rich scientific field, overwhelmed with its own empirical data and amenable to quantitative assessment of mathematical models. 

    Biologists, anthropologists and economists - all of them independently sorted out this issue ten years ago and had long agreed on the well -efficient pragmatic theory of biological cooperation. Morality is not some kind of magical essence of human decision-making, but simply an “emergent property” of interdependent social dynamics. Therefore, trying to explain human morality through the god of the Bible is absolutely equivalent to attempts to call Thor, the god of thunder, to explain the weather. 

    This is the argument of the “god of gaps”, which does not even have any gaps! It is paradoxical that it is so difficult for Christians to come to terms with this natural morality when you understand that the vast majority of American Christians are also fanatical capitalists - And this is such an economic system, I remind you, which is based on the main assumption that all human beings are fundamentally moved by personal interests! The very essence of the “free market economy” consists in the fact that self -serving individuals have completely rational incentives for cooperation and specialization to improve the entire social structure. 

    This is an impressive level of “double -smelter”, when Christians simultaneously support and reject the same principle for any other reason, except for a religious context. It is important to understand that biologists just do not give a damn about such naive labels as “good” and “evil”. No matter what behavior your parents and other ancestors would statistically choose to realize, the same behavior should contribute to their final survival and reproduction, Because if they did not do this, then by definition you would not be here to think about it. 

    In the same way, your own actions should inevitably serve the same goal, otherwise, by definition, you will have neither children nor grandchildren to think about it. Therefore, if it happened that our collective behavior includes a common tendency to be kind to each other and get along, This and this should also, one way or another, serve to improve our statistical reproductive success. Natural selection simply cannot happen somehow differently. 

    Note that nothing in this principle requires the appearance of some uniform moral perfection, But instead, exactly what we are observing in human cultural groups today is predicted - A huge variety of moral systems with its nuances, each of which individually adapts to its appropriate cultural niches and is constantly diversified geographically and over time. Nevertheless, despite all our differences in cultural norms and values, it is easy to see how certain universal principles can still be applied to all groups at all times. 

    For example, under any conceivable circumstances, eating babies will never contribute to the long-term survival and reproduction of any cultural group. This has nothing to do with some mystical, transcendental essence of being, and this is a simple fact that any group that behaves in this way must inevitably die out. That is why we call fascist Nazis “bad”, and peaceful supporters of equality - “good”. 

    Because if our desire is to live in a happy, safe, productive society (and most of us usually want it), Then this is an objective fact that the aggressive confrontation of our neighbors is counterproductive to achieve this goal. However, if we do not have the slightest desire to build peaceful, cooperative and mutually beneficial relations with others, Then there really is no good reason to refrain from rampant genocidal aggression, right? Just do not be surprised when huge resources of a national scale that could be spent on improving infrastructure and financing innovation, Instead, they will be spent on fighting people who want to destroy our culture. 

    Remember that the moral argument in favor of the existence of God should be another of those sophisticated main arguments, based on solid logic and honed over the centuries of academic discourse. However, his whole structure is so hopelessly frailing in every conceivable step that I can describe it only as a “pathologically insane” argument. He again does not offer any empirical predictions;He makes unreasonable statements;He uses inexted terminology, He makes circular judgments;He internally contradicts himself;He does not give a reason to worry, even if he turns out to be true; He internally uses the same philosophical principles that he seeks to reject;He defends the moral standard that easily allows slavery and genocide; And he is trying to magically explain the natural phenomenon, which is already perfectly understood by science! The only conceivable reason why this monster generally exists is that it serves as an excellent tool for open psychological manipulation. 