<h1> Philosophical_Failures_of_Christian_Apologetics,_Part_10_Other_Religions </h1>

    So does God exist or not? Well, hopefully, if you've been paying attention up to this point, the answer is pretty obvious. NO!Do not fool guys. The very idea of God is already a hopelessly incoherent nonsense, And this means that the very thought of its existence can be completely refuted only with the help of pure reasoning. But even if someone really managed to provide a logically viable concept for such a word as “God”, then the "Burden of Proof" would obviously be on theists to empirically demonstrate the existence of God, rather than on atheists to negatively prove the contrary. 

    Until this burden is actually met, the complete absence of evidence will, in itself, fully justify the strong claim that there is no such thing as God. But let's be generous and just immediately assume that theists are right in any case. God is a logically consistent thing manifested in objective reality as a powerful, reasonable agent. He created the Universe, he created his whole life that we know it, and he personally intends to judge us for our earthly obedience to the doctrines of his only true religion. 

    Can anyone now tell me exactly what religion this should be? Is this Islam?Hinduism?Zoroastrianism? Christianity?Judaism?Shintoism?Sikhism?Jainism? All these religions affirm the absolute confidence in the true nature of the only true God (or gods), And many of them even threaten us with an eternal curse for the fact that we accidentally believed in the wrong god. So, how exactly can we determine which one is the right way to salvation, as opposed to the merciful mixture of vicious human distortions? Obviously, we cannot.None of these religions have any epistemological advantage over others, and this is overwhelmingly a matter of cultural education as to which of them people simply fell into. 

    But, hey, let's ignore it again and all this too, and still suppose that the only true faith is really Christianity. Now what? Which denomination of Christianity should I follow? Are these Catholics?Pentecost?Baptists?Mennonites?Lutherans?Mormons? Anglicans?Adventists?Methodists?Quakers?Presbyterians? Remember that our immortal souls are put on the map!One bad choice can easily mean the difference between eternal paradise bliss and endless hellish fire and a curse. 

    Nevertheless, there are dozens, if not hundreds of denominations that we can choose within the framework of Christianity alone. And for those of you who did not understand a little: you died, and this is hell.Therefore, leave the hope of everyone ... and so on. Now we will begin the distribution process that will last ... Hey, a minute, I should not be here, I was an absolutely honest and devoted Protestant, I thought we were going to heaven! Yes, I'm afraid you were mistaken. 

    I was a practitioner of Jehovah!- You also chose the wrong religion. Well then, who was right?Who gets into paradise? I am afraid that these were Mormons, yes, Mormons were the correct answer. So what kind of convincing argument can anyone dream of offering, who will prove the truth of any one faith over another? In the most extreme case, only one of these concepts of God can be rightly recognized as correct, While all other variations must be a product of human imagination. 

    But if everyone else believes in wild, superstitious nonsense for no uniform good reason, What makes any religious believer so convinced of the absolute truth of his specific variety of faith? Thus, we come to the greatest philosophical failure of the entire Christian apologetics: The simple existence of other religions. Note that even if we fully satisfy absolutely all the requirements of Christian apologists, we still encounter an indisputable fact about human nature: The enormous vast majority of people throughout history devoted their lives to the worship of things, which are definitely not real. 

    We are talking about the phenomenon, so universal among cultural groups that it is practically qualified as a defining sign. So this is not only atheists argue that God does not exist, but also theists themselves in relation to each other. You will never find a faithful Christian who sincerely believes that the Mormon concept of God can lead a person to salvation, Just as you will never find a single Mormon who accepts salvation from Islam. 

    For that matter, the only practical difference that separates theists from atheists - This is a simple fact that atheists add another small inscription to this huge list of other concepts of God, which are definitely not real. This is a very significant observation, and it eloquently speaks of the intellectual good faith of religious apologists. Because if religion had at least some attitude to the real supernatural agent who informs our will to our will, It can be assumed that we would observe the gradual rapprochement of theologies over time. 

    False doctrines would inevitably be discarded, since the correct doctrines would withstand an objective, critical, strict analysis. But instead, we see the exact opposite when new religious denominations apparently simply constantly arise, And then they are very divided along very distinct cultural and geographical boundaries. This definitely makes it clear that religion has nothing to do with any rational desire to understand the reality, Instead, it is a highly subjective product of human cultural groups. 

    Therefore, instead of endlessly arguing about the existence of any particular god or gods, Perhaps the real question that we must ask for ourselves is where all these religions continue to appear initially from? It must be emphasized that this issue is still completely justified, even if your personal concept of God is real. Nevertheless, most Christian apologists are almost deafly silent on this issue, as if his simple recognition of his aloud will accidentally expose the unreasonable nature of their own beliefs. 

    Even in those rare cases when they try to discuss this issue in a sense, the only comment they usually have on this issue is a simple statement about “Christian exclusivity” - The insistent statement that all these other religions are simply erroneous, while Christianity, “obvious”, is the only right heap. So, if Christians are not even going to touch the problem of “religious pluralism”, then it is possible that this is a good opportunity to see what science can say on this issue. 

    In the end, it does not seem that all these religions simply suddenly arose from nothing.Something obviously causes this phenomenon, And the only way to find out what is through a thorough study. Therefore, this is only a matter of time when science finally comes to the fore, developing a viable pragmatic theory of religion itself. Starting from the most fundamental foundations, it is important to always keep in mind, which is from a purely biological point of view Human creatures are, in fact, just another group of evolving organisms. 

    Everything in us is inevitably moving in competition for limited resources in an endless cycle of survival and reproduction. This is not a subject of a serious scientific dispute, but simply a rude fact of nature on which any theory of religion should be based. However, contrary to common intuition, not all competition is inherently “playing a zero sum”. In other words, not all my achievements must be the result of someone's losses. 

    Life very often provides us with valuable opportunities to achieve maximum adaptability through simple acts of cooperation, instead of pure and ruthless antagonism. That is why so many organisms spend so much effort, working together in collaborating groups. For example, wolves hunt with flocks together, bees live together in colonies, And even bacteria in your intestines work with your own digestive tract to break down complex nutrients. 

    This is a well -known phenomenon called “symbiotic mutualism”, or simply “cooperation”, In which self -serving biological agents strive to work together for the sake of mutually beneficial results. This is a completely natural consequence of the basic “theory of games”, in applying to common biological scenarios. The only thing that distinguishes human beings in this regard is a huge scale in which we are able to exploit its advantages. 

    This is a developed form of cooperation, usually called “social interdependence”, in which none of us can reliably survive and flourish without others. The more we work at the same time, the more benefits to all of us. Therefore, close -knit and cooperating societies are stable and prosperous, while fragmented and antagonistic societies inevitably experience difficulties in satisfying basic human needs. 

    All this has not yet causes special controversy, but raises important questions about how specific our brain is generally able to control all this social navigation. For example, consider this pair of objects shown here. Obviously, one of these pieces is an example of a thinking and feeling agent, while the other is nothing more than a lifeless piece of insensitive material substance. You could notice, however, that I did not have to tell you about it at all. 

    If you are at least a little similar to most people, then you have already come to exactly the same conclusion long before I started explaining it. In addition, you probably also have an innate feeling that this person can feel, or even what his attention is concentrated at the moment. Obviously, as this simple demonstration shows, human beings have very effective abilities for recognizing and evaluating the presence of other agents. 

    All this is part of the cool cognitive process, known as the "theory of reason" - The ability to perceive other objects in their environment as having a separate mental awareness, which is similar, but regardless of the "I". This is the most important tool in the social dynamics of a person that allows us to empathize with other members of the group and even predict how they can respond to various situations. 

    But no matter how impressive all this looks like, it is important to understand that all this happens not just by magic. Somewhere, somehow deeply inside your brain, there are complex groups of neurons, intended specifically for this process. Some of these groups were even identified directly, for example, the well -known system of “mirror neurons”, found in most social primates. Mirror neurons are activated not only when the agent itself performs a specific action, But even when the agent simply observes another agent performing the same action. 

    This is still clear, but we should always remember that evolution will never create an absolutely reliable system. Mistakes will inevitably arise, and these errors must necessarily lead to tangible biological costs. To illustrate this, just imagine what could have happened if you were completely unable to recognize or empathize with other agents in your environment. In other words, instead of perceiving their brothers as individuals with unique thoughts and motivations separate from your own Perhaps instead you experience some kind of lifeless, insensitive stimulus, no different from the wind or sunlight. 

    This is known as a “error of the second kind”, or simply “falsely negative” - Inability to attribute the agent to the real agent. Therefore, ask yourself what biological costs can be associated with this error? What do you think, how would people react if you treated them as a simple stimulus, and not as an equal feeling agent? Will it be good for your reproductive success or bad? Obviously, the costs of such a mistake can be very high, and that is why natural selection in the vast majority of cases shifts our judgment as far from this as possible. 

    However, with such behavior, we are now subjected to a much more likely risk to make the exact opposite mistake: Random attribution of subjective agency lifeless, unreasonable objects. This error is called “first kind error”, or “falsely positive”, And again, it should lead to tangible biological consequences. Thus, regardless of which direction our actions are inclined, it seems that we simply cannot periodically make mistakes in our attributing agency to our environment. 

    But, fortunately, there is absolutely no reason for the costs of these errors to be completely symmetrical. While the error of the second kind is almost catastrophic for a socially dependent organism, The mistake of the first kind, in turn, simply brings inconvenience. Maybe you will avoid stepping on the bushes, because you are afraid to hurt them, or spend some time, asking the advice from the moon. 

    Maybe you will perform several rain dances to appease the clouds, or shout at the ocean for insufficient fish production. All these are quite acceptable costs for any social being, given the huge advantages that arise from trusting cooperation with other members of the group. This simple mental experiment is a biological foundation for a very important phenomenon called "hyperactive discovery of agency" - the vast majority of human beings to excessive attribution of agency to their environment, instead of insufficient attribution. 

    This is the ubiquitous aspect of all human psychology, which can even be measured empirically in laboratory conditions. For example, “Paecidolia” is a tendency to see things such as human faces, in random and natural structures. “Spontaneous social attribution” is a powerful effect in which even animated geometric shapes are endowed with personalities, relationships, sexual characteristics and even background. 

    “Razreny television” is a tendency to perceive natural objects or random events as specially designed with a certain intention. “Personification” is a literary technique in which inhuman objects or even abstract objects are endowed with distinct human features and emotions. Even the “autistic spectrum disorder” was theoretized as a certain violation in these mechanisms of discovery of agency, in which victims usually experience difficulties with basic social skills. 

    Thus, by default, without any need for preparation or stimulation from the outside, The direct human tendency is to perceive almost everything, as if it were endowed with a clear ability to motivated agency. That is why, ceteris paribus, the spiritual beliefs of all the primitive cultures of the hunter-gatherers were everywhere “animistic”. These so -called primitive religions are amazingly similar in the fact that everyday lifeless objects, including stones, trees, mountains and clouds, All are perceived as those who have a distinctly expressed spiritual essence, which drives them and controls their behavior. 

    This is a completely natural manifestation, given the restrictions of early human knowledge, but of course it is completely erroneous. The weather does not respond to human calls, and the ocean is not going to produce more fish, no matter how much you scream at it. Therefore, any efforts spent on the prediction of spirits are inherently useless and should have tangible costs from the point of view of biological adaptability. 

    Pay attention to how this puts early people in an interesting evolutionary position. Although the benefits of social cooperation are relatively huge, the efforts spent on response to false agents are still quite expensive. Therefore, natural selection cannot but affect primitive religious traditions, creating as many productive variations as possible. Thus, the direct consequence of this is a kind of cultural inheritance with a modification, When religious practices slowly develop in their complication and diversity through many subsequent generations. 

    As if religion itself literally lives its own life, competing for adherents with other religions in a kind of cultural and psychological ecosystem. Traditions that more successfully give rise to converts and support their well -being, ultimately begin to dominate the cultural landscape, While less successful traditions become more and more insignificant or can even die out. It was in this way that “animism” gradually gave rise to religious practice, known as “politicalism” - Institutional worship of many gods and goddesses who serve as anthropomorphic representations for various forces of nature. 

    In fact, there is no fundamental difference between these two systems, with the exception of, possibly a relative degree of complexity within the framework of practitioners. For example, consider the famous gods and goddesses of classical Greek and Roman mythology. What is Poseidon, if not embellished the spirit of the sea and waves? What is Aphrodite, if not the spirit of love and fertility?Where did Zeus come from, if not from the great spirit of the sky and thunder? Even various priests and oracles that worked in great temples were a little more than shamans who took on a special role in spiritual authority in local communities. 

    Now consider what is happening when the complexity of any polytheistic pantheon becomes too large. In other words, should we really propitiate all the gods in order to achieve the desired results?Or only some of the most important ones? Should I build a temple Zeus and Artemis?Or just one Artemis? Do both gods react equally well to calls?Or is one of them more sympathized with human needs than the other? Obviously, from ancient politicalists it was impossible to expect worship of all gods with the same zeal. 

    Instead, practical restrictions dictate that they ultimately had to choose among their favorites. It was a common religious practice, known as “genotheism”, in which many gods openly recognize as existing and influencing, But only a few chosen ones (or even only one) will ever receive serious worship. For example, you will definitely not see many ancient Greek temples dedicated to the ate, the goddess of misfortune, But you will see damn a lot of time and energy spent on more outstanding deities, such as Artemis, Zeus and Athena. 

    Often this was manifested through a special system of local patronage, in which individual city-states were inclined to accept the preferred deity for serious worship. For example, Athens worshiped Athena, Olympia identified Zeus, and Corinth chose Poseidon. In some cases, devotion to one specific deity can become so strong that all other deities will be completely excluded. This is a practice, widely known as “monolatrism” (or “monolatry”), in which many gods are still openly recognized as existing ones, But only one of them is openly worshiped in any cultural region. 

    For example, this is a well -known fact that the early Israeli people believed in a whole bunch of gods and goddesses, including such famous names as El, Baal and Asher. However, the main difference is that Yahweh, and only Yahweh, has ever been honored with serious commitment. In fact, most Bible researchers even agree that the Old Testament itself retains many traces of this tradition in numerous passages. 

    Take, for example, the first of the ten commandments given by Moses: "May you not have other gods before my face." Please note that Yahweh does not actually deny the existence of any other gods as such, but simply instructs Moses to never give any of them priority in worship. Many other passages even more confirm this point of view, as in the outcome of 15, who asks: “Who, how are you, Lord, between the gods?” What other gods can we talk about, if not about the gods of some wider, established pantheon? As a result, the practice of monolatria has become so extreme for ancient Jews that they finally moved to a full -fledged classical “monotheism” - Direct denial of any existence for all other gods, except for one. 

    We again see evidence of this transition in later books of the Old Testament, who often try their best to remind the reader that there are no other gods except Yahweh. Why is it so important to emphasize if not to discredit widespread belief? It is easy to understand how the adoption of monotheism can lead to all kinds of distinct cultural advantages. In the end, if there is only one god and only one correct way to worship this god, Then it becomes much easier to build a unifying sense of cultural identity around this God. 

    This action may have huge advantages for group rallying on a national scale, as well as for the effectiveness of leadership. Maybe this provides greater resistance to hostile neighbors or, possibly, the best stability in the national government. Who knows?But it is obvious that in this practice there should be some tangible benefit, because the vast majority of religious adherents today are definitely monotheists. 

    Please note that we have just established a clear chain of heredity with variability, which perfectly explains the historical development of the entire Western religion. Starting from the early cultures of hunter-gatherers, we know that hyperactive discovery of agency has a full opportunity to spontaneously develop into animism. Then natural selection acted on this system for many generations, producing more and more complex and various variations. 

    Some of these variations are prone to anthropomorphism of numerous forces of nature, thereby giving the beginning of the familiar concept of the gods and goddesses. The practical necessity then forced these groups to pay priority attention to the worship of their especially beloved gods, Moreover, some of them even got to the point of completely devoting themselves to only one single deity. At least one of these groups then completely rejected the existence of all other gods, So one and only one God eventually received full power over everything in the universe. 

    Voila!Animism develops into polytheism, which turns into genotheism, which then grows into a monolatry, So far, finally, it does not reach the climax in monotheism. This perfectly explains the documented historical development of all famous ancient religions. Moreover, all this even predicts the branching pattern of the “Tree of Life”, which could be expected from a long chain of heredity with variability. 

    So, tell me mercy, my dear Christians, but what exactly, in your opinion, is happening here? Remember that your own faith requires you exclusivity in the issue of who can achieve salvation and who is not. This means that each “wrong” branch of this tree, including within Christianity itself, is inevitably cursed to eternity. Nevertheless, each of these groups in the same way as you, is convinced of the absolute truth of his faith. 

    So what makes you so damn confident that it is your specific small branch that is at least somewhat better? Keep in mind that, despite this, the huge wealth of anthropological data, there are still countless open issues that have yet to be solved. For example, why are religions everywhere are so much obsessed with human sexuality and death? Why do they constantly generate so many insane stories about cosmology and human origin? What kind of forces accelerate or stabilize the emergence of new religious traditions over time? What needs to be done to overcome these traditions and convince people to look at the world objectively and skeptical? These are all the most beautiful issues, and there is actually an army of psychologists, neurologists, historians and anthropologists who collectively explore them while we say. 

    Damn it, maybe even some of you, watching it right now, will help to answer these questions during our lives. But whatever the answers, they can only be found through the thorough application of science and the scientific method. Only understanding the cognitive forces that control religious development, can we hope to ever cure humanity from superstitions that tormented our mind from the very dawn of civilization. 

    “We are all atheists in relation to most gods in which humanity has ever believed.Some of us simply take a step through another god. "- & nbsp; Richard & nbsp; dokins. [Translated vk.com/id79920293] 