<h1> Psychology_of_Homophobia </h1>

    — We decided that the Bible is the word of God. We don't have to have any debate about what we believe, it's all already written in the Bible. It's clear? Therefore, we do not need to argue about what we should think about homosexual activity, everything is written about it in the Bible! This is Ted Haggard, the American Gospel Pastor, the founder of the New Life Church and the ardent defender of "traditional family values" How ironic it is that in 2006, Pastor Ted became involved in a high-profile sex scandal involving methamphetamine use and male prostitution. 

    And this is Mark Foley, a former Florida state representative, a proud member of the Roman Catholic Church and an outspoken opponent of gay rights. And again, how paradoxical that this gentleman was forced to quit Congress after the scandal of sexual harassment to minor young men who worked in Congress. This is Larry "Broad Posture" Craig, congressman, Methodist Christian and yet another political activist against gay rights. 

    How ironic again that this man pleaded guilty to indecent exposure charges after sexually harassing an undercover cop in an airport bathroom. You know, at such moments I remember the famous expression: If it happens once, it is an anomaly. If it happens twice, it's a coincidence. But if this happens three times, then this is a pattern. So why are ardent opponents of gay rights always caught up in these high-profile gay scandals? Does science have any thoughts on this issue? Maybe there is a connection between homophobia and latent homosexuality? Consider the following experiment. 

    Recruit a group of heterosexual men aged 18 to 31 and measure their scores on a homophobia scale. There is nothing complicated here, it is simply a numerical indicator determined by answers to 25 questions. For example, on a scale from 1 to 5, how much do you agree with the statement: I will feel comfortable, working next to a man homosexual. Or maybe: I will be disappointed if I find out that my child is homosexual.Etc. 

    When finished, divide the subjects into two groups. Those who score more than 50 points will be considered homophobic, And those who have scored less than 50 points will be considered like non -brothel. Now comes the fun part. Place each subject in a comfortable easy chair in a private, soundproof room. When the subject on the spot, show him a 4-minute video with the most juicy and sexual pornography M+F, to which your dirty hands reached. 

    And when the subject relaxes and enjoys the show, measure the increase in his penis throughout the video. Some of you can be surprised how it is generally possible to measure the increase in the penis? This is a completely understandable question. Won't some laboratory assistant sit there with a ruler while the test subject gets an erection? It turns out the answer is quite simple. All you need is a mercury rubber circumference meter, also known as a penis plethysmograph, or as I like to call it, a stand-up meter! Yes, medical science does have such tools. 

    It's certainly interesting what the conversation looked like when the researchers tried to convince subjects to wear this thing. When you're done collecting erection data from bone meters, ask yourself: Will homophobia have any effect on men's enjoyment of good M+F pornography? Of course not, right? If you thought so, then you are absolutely right. As the graph clearly shows, the difference in penis diameter between each group was virtually negligible. 

    Homophobes and non-homophobes enjoyed classic pornography equally. Who would have thought? Now let's change the conditions a little. After the first round of scientific porn viewing, give your subjects a few minutes to cool down and prepare for the second round. This time, play them another 4-minute video of good, high-quality porn. Only this time, instead of the usual straight sex, show them the best lesbian sex that the adult industry has on the market. 

    Again, using a stand-up meter, do not forget to measure the erection of the penis of your subjects. Now let's ask ourselves again: Will homophobia have any effect on men's enjoyment of homosexual F+F pornography? Of course it will, right? Not really! As far as erections are concerned, homophobic men enjoy F+F sex just like any other man. Therefore, there is no difference here either. Now let's change the conditions one last time. 

    After completing the second round, give subjects a cool-down break before the third round. And this time show them videos of homosexual M+M pornography. Of course, homophobic men who literally feel uncomfortable in the physical presence of other gay men would not show any arousal from such a stimulus, right? Wrong! As the results clearly show, homophobic men tend to exhibit erection diameters twice as large as non-homophobic men when watching M+M pornography. 