<h1> Psychology_of_Belief,_Part_3_Confirmation_Bias </h1>

    Psychology of beliefs, part 3: The bias of confirmation - See, an atheist nightmare! If you look at this beautiful banana, then you will see that there are 3 ribs on the curved side, and 2 ribs on the concave. If you prepare your hand to grab a banana, you will find that there are three fossa on the upper side, and on the bottom of the side there are two fossae. Banana and hand are ideally created for each other. 

    You will understand that the creator of the banana, the Almighty God, created it with a non -slip surface. He also has external signs of internal content: green - too early;yellow - just right;Black - too late. It is easy to chew, it is easily absorbed and even bent to his face to make the whole process much easier.Seriously, Kirk, the whole creation indicates the genius of God's creation. Have you ever wondered how a person can hold the evolutionary product through artificial selection in his hands, but still to see only creationism? Consider the following experiment: The next three numbers are subordinate to a certain, pre -recorded rule: Your task is to find out this rule. 

    You can offer three numbers from your choice. If your numbers obey this rule, then you get a happy smile - :) If not, then you get a sad smile - :( You offer numbers until you make sure that you have learned this rule. READY? Let's start with an obvious hypothesis. "Entire numbers that increase by 2."8, 10, 12 - :) 22, 24, 26 — :) 100, 102, 104 — :) Yeah, it was simple. The rule is that: "Entire numbers increase by 2."Right? WRONG. 

    WRONG??? But all tests perfectly confirmed our hypothesis! The correct answer was: "Any three increasing integers." This is a classic demonstration of "bias in confirmation." All that we did was looking for confirmation for what we have already believed in. And absolutely the same thing is the same by 73% of the subjects. If we want to know the truth, then we must explore alternatives to what we have already believed in. 

    "A multiple of two?"4, 8, 16 - :) "A multiple of three?"3, 12, 21 - :) "... in any order?"12, 3, 21 - :( "Increasing integers?"1, 27, 51 - :) "Increasing material numbers?"1, pi, 11^(1/2) - :( Until we are ready to make mistakes, we can never find out what is right. Now consider another experiment: Who, in your opinion, becomes a better firefighter? Caution, doing everything according to the rules, a conservative? Or a risky adventurer and rebel? In all likelihood, few of us know anything about the fight against fires. 

    Therefore, in the absence of information, the correct answer is "I do not know." And therefore, the control group spoke only a small preference for risky people. Now imagine that we were given a document - “why risky firefighters are better” by Joe Faerman. Suddenly, we find reasonable arguments from a real expert. Therefore, when the subjects are asked to give their assessment on the risk scale ... 

    ... They naturally express a strong preference for risky. Now imagine that the experimenters have dedicated us to a short secret. This report, which was shown to you, is false. All these facts and graphs were invented by some uneducated idiot. And who now, in your opinion, becomes a better firefighter? At first you received excellent evidence for risky. But then, the same proof turned out to be completely false. 

    Thus, we return to where we started. Therefore, we should expect that people will return back to the position “I don't know”, right? WRONG. Even after exposure, the subjects still strongly adhered to their new conviction. And the same thing happened to those who were convinced to take the opposite position (for unnecessary). This is called "persistence of belief." Thus, as we can see, the bias of confirmation blinds our attention in relation to ideas that contradict our beliefs. 