<h1> rebuttals_to_'betting_on_infinity' </h1>

    Here is a continuation of the video "betting on the infinity" that Qualiasoup and I had made, on the bet of Pascal. Some Christians have advanced various criticism in response, and it is a useful exercise to review these criticism. 1) The use by Pascal of the word "incomprehensible" has been distorted It was said that it was a distortion of what Pascal meant by "incomprehensible". It has been said that the use of the word by Pascal allowed the possibility of understanding God in terms of "what we understand that God is". 

    The problem is that Pascal said precisely what we said. According to the 233 fragment of thoughts: "We are therefore unable to know or what it is, or if it is". Why is it important in the eyes of our detractors to say that Pascal never said that? Well, I think the painful point is as follows: "Neither if he is". To say that we are unable to know what something leaves the possibility of its existence is open.In fact, this implies its existence. 

    But to say that we are unable to know if it exists is a completely different affirmation.This makes atheism not only reasonable, but unassailable. It is now impossible to claim that there is an abundance of evidence of a deity whose atheists knowingly do not take into account. Because if such evidence existed, we would then be able to know if the divinity exists. The argument concerning "what we understand that God is" has different flaws.We are not talking about understanding a description, we are talking about understanding the object itself. 

    We could discuss what we understand that Sherlock Holmes, a completely invented character.The ability to understand a description of a thing is not an Olympic feat, And that does not answer the question of the existence of this thing. Another problem is the expression "monotheistic premise", which excludes by its own formulation polytheistic religions. On the contrary, it should be premise.But the main problem with the expression was a bit object of the video: what we understand about the essence of the gods is not the subject of a consensus, This creates a paralyzing number of incompatible and contradictory concepts, even within the same religion. 

    2) Taking as many arguments against Pascal's bet was incoherent A theist accused us of a strange inconsistency. He said that since we said that God was absolutely incomprehensible, So we should have stopped there, because it would mean that Pascal's arguments are empty of meaning, and that there would be no interest in continuing. He said that by continuing to highlight additional contradictions in Pascal's work, we were inconsistency. 

    This amounts to saying that if it is said that the Bible is not the Word of God, one can then then analyze the different individual passages to produce additional arguments. You have to stop immediately, or we then show inconsistency. (But there is nothing inconsistent to identify multiple faults). I included this criticism, because it is a very familiar example of the stifling contortions to which some engage in trying to make a criticism when they actually have absolutely no rational argument. 

    3) Pascal did not say that rituals create belief We have shown Pascal's ideas on how to develop religious beliefs in any person: "by taking holy water, making masses say, etc. Of course it will make you believe". Our detractors said that this is not what Pascal said. What you see above ("by taking holy water, making masses say, etc. Of course it will make you believe") is a direct quote from Pascal. 

    In the sentences that preceded it, Pascal imagined a person who declared "I am done in such a way that I cannot believe. What do you want me to do?" It was Pascal's response to this person.Do you want the source?"Thoughts", fragment 233. 4) Qualifying the bet as "mercenary" is unfair It has been said to call Pascal's bet a mercenary bet is unreasonable. "Larousse: mercenary adj. Who works only for a salary, who is inspired ... " It seems to me to be the ideal description. 

    If you can find me a more adequate word that means doing something for a reward, not by conviction, I am all ears. We found to complain about our criticism vis-à-vis the "blockage of reason". 5) Pascal's bet is rational It was said that Pascal's bet was rational. Pascal himself said that the bet was not rational.He explicitly said: "Reason can not determine anything." This is a bit like the interest of the bet.So arguing that the latter is rational is not only false, it amounts to contradicting Pascal. 

    6) Blocking rationality has no impact on scientific facts We also found to say when our idea that blocking rationality has an impact on relations with rational people and scientific facts. Some people could not make the link.So I will develop. Pascal's idea was that the individual must silence their intelligence, to stop asking questions that could remove them from belief. But if the individual can stop, this will not be the case with other people. 

    Rational people will serve as a permanent recall to these questions, and their words must be rejected or distorted. Scientific facts as well as evolution will have to be rejected or distorted, in belief systems which give divine explanations incompatible with these facts on our origin. It is not simply theoretical: we see the consequences every day, when rational people and scientific facts are marginalized in order to preserve religious ideas. 

    (Fundamentalist affirmations: 'Do not teach the evolution - teach the controversy on the subject!' 'Even Darwin said that the idea that the eye is the fruit of an evolution was "highly absurd".' 'Carbon 14 dating is absolutely not reliable for dates exceeding 4000 years.') 7) Pascal did not say anything about "to numb his mind" It was said that Pascal did not say anything about numbing his mind. Let's go back to see the proposed effects of religious rituals.Here is Pascal in the original French: "Naturally even it will make you believe and fire you." Yes, there are different translations in English, but they differ on "stammening", which means stunning, making someone unable to think correctly. 

    Again, stop arguing with me, these are the direct words of Pascal. 8) The multitude of religions that exist does not swell the bet Another criticism is only to have shown all Christian religions and denominations does not discredit the bet, it simply means that it is necessary to be more prudent in its choices. Uh no. And the decisive idea for that, which seems to have been missed, is the threat of eternal torture for having chosen the bad God ("you will have no other gods in front of my face", book of Exodus 20: 3). 

    If you think that does not swell the statements of the bet ("if you lose, you don't lose anything"), then you have not understood the bet at all. Because if you choose the bad God, wrongly, then your loss is infinite. 9) overestimation of the number of gods It was said that we overestimated the number of incomprehensible gods.It was said that certain descriptions were not plausible. I find that irony is staggering, when someone who makes an implausibility criticism has no problem believing that two individuals of each animal species of the earth have all been gathered in a large boat. 

    Do you know how many spider species there are?More than forty thousand.And it is only for spiders. Has Noé received the list of all species?How did he keep his eye on those he had to recover?How did he know when to stop looking for even more spiders? These are some points to think before you start talking about the concept of implausibility.But to respond more directly to the problem of plausibility: what humans find plausible or implausible does not determine reality. 

    Lots of people found implausible the idea that our earth revolves around the sun, instead of the opposite.Has their feeling of implausibility had the slightest effect on this heliocentric reality? No.There is also a kind of redefinition that is implemented. Some criticisms wanted to dismiss the Greek gods, the Roman gods, or the Nordic gods, by calling them powerful, but not all-powerful. Let's take a closer look, to examine a word they have in common. 

    "Gods".What were we talking about?Gods. It is not a category like superheroes that are inserted in the gentle and re-labeled "gods", they are defined as gods. And this attempt to change the definition of the word "gods" in order to exclude them illustrates perfectly why some criticisms say that we overestimate the number of gods.It is because they want to rule out all those who do not correspond to their personal definition. 

    Well, we boldly take a wider overview, and we include in our list of gods defined as being gods. 10) The scenarios "What if?"unadvinated were bizarre Here is a clear case of disbelief.As with the impossible, what people find strange does not serve as an argument. And here is why.If you reject what you find personally bizarre, we will also have to reject what other people find weird, which will inevitably include your belief system. 

    Pay attention to the reasons why you argue, you will have to defend your own belief system for these same reasons. 11) Moralizing conclusion By the way, this sentence ("we can, on the contrary, invest in 'tangible' by exploring our universe with honesty and intellectual rigor, living with respect and conscience among our fellows.") Was qualified as moralizing and preaching. This framework where no instruction is given, we do not say what to do to anyone, where we are content to state an option ("we can" do this).It's an invitation. 

    And, oh my God.If you are so sensitive to preaching, I wonder how you can get out of the church every week. Where do you remember where the verb comes from?"Preach, verb: pronounce a sermons to a group of people, typically in a church". Again, as with the "plausible", those who live in glass houses would better do not throw stones to the neighbor. 12) Ethical standards cannot be compared to the laws of physics It was said that in our invitation to respect our fellow men, we were comparing ethical standards to the laws of physics. 

    This is one of the most unruly nonsense of the job.A pure and simple man of straw.Where did we say that ethical norms are like the laws of physics? Or?It is only completely insignificant rhetoric. To summarize, the counter arguments that have been presented to us are clearly a collection of straw men, arguments of disbelief, sophisms of the real Scottish, distorted descriptions and shamelessly incorrect accusations of deformations of words. 

    I allowed a good part of the more personal attacks which, as expected, came with these criticisms.Speculation about my person, my experience, my motivations, you know the genre. Personal things that very often try to divert the attention of the thinness of the arguments proper which are presented. No attention of attention here 