<h1> Transactional_Analysis_2_games </h1>

    Transaction analysis.Part 2: Games. In the first video, I considered the ego state-analogies for various styles of thinking, sensations and behavior. I touched on the control, care, adapting and free styles, which are called in the one as a parent and a child, and compared them to an adult. Next, I will delve into a spectrum of these styles a little. I also examined the complementary transactions where there are styles of thinking and behavior between two people to create stable interaction. 

    And intersecting transactions, where the same styles conflict, producing unstable interactions. In this video I will consider games and the so -called "hidden" transactions. But in the beginning, a little more about the ego state. The spectrum of behavior of the child and parent is huge. Take the condition of the parent.At first glance, control can look negative, and care is positive, but let's look closer. 

    Control may include some negative features, for example, authority, despotism, meticulousness, neglect. But it can also lead to positive experience, when discipline and leadership are needed.Criticism can be served in a constructive and tactful way. Careness can look positive when it is expressed in support, empathy and help. But it can also be suffocating, fetting, hyper -beeping and, as a result, be more negative than real concern. 

    The same with the adapting and free style of the child. In free mode, we can be self -centered and selfish, wild and impulsive. But we can also be creative, playful, curious. The adaptive mode includes how we change ourselves in response to the rules prescribed by authorities. From the negative side, we can learn to be humble, intimidated, anxious, helpless. Or we can adapt in a different way, going against the rules, becoming rebellious and anti-conformists. 

    From the positive side, adaptation can help us get along with other people, accepting reasonable social agreements. Of course, there are degrees in all these factors.Take humility. Like any listed factor, it can be in the spectrum from weak to strong. Subragency can be expressed in different ways, it can be passive, in the form of a reaction to the desire of people. Or the proactive - predicting desire of people. 

    The spectrum of human behavior here is very wide.And this is good news for solving problems with games. Instead of stuck in 2-3 fixed reactions, there is a huge space for creativity and individuality. Consider the script.Man “A” says that he has some problems.Man "B" begins to offer decisions. One by one, a person “a” begins to reject each of them, giving reasons why no of them will work. The “b” eventually end with ideas, “a” tends him: “Well, an assistant from you!” This is a classic game, known in the one as "why not you ... - yes, but ..." In his book “Games played by people”, the founder Eric Burn considers many similar games. 

    Why is this a game?Because what is said does not agree with what is happening psychologically. With a superficial look at their dialogue, you might think that “a” is looking for help, and “B” offers it. But in fact, “a” does not want help at all.In fact, “a” simply wants attention and justifications for his inaction. What is happening in this case with the ego states?On the social level, it looks like an adult-adult, “B” offers reasonable, practical, adult recommendations, and “a” indicates their reasonable, practical disadvantages. 

    But under this layer, at the psychological level, “a” proceeds from the helpless and suffering state of the child. And “B” reacts to this, accepting the style of a saving parent. This is what is known as a “hidden” transaction that describes the discrepancy between superficial manifestations and hidden motives. “A” finishes the game, switching to a critical parent, with switching “B” to a helpless child. 

    This change in states by the end of the game is known as a “switch”, the so -called “embarrassment” follows the switch, The moment of confusion, when the victim of the game realized that she had just been held. Now “reckoning” comes when the initiator of the game feels right and superior, and “B” feels incompetent and stupid. Games can be played to varying degrees, it offers three wide levels. The first degree games are the softest, they are felt permissible in the social group of the player.[Soft, acceptable] Players of the second degree of games prefer to hide that they play these games, and do not play them with familiar people.[Socially unacceptable] Games of the third degree can lead to injuries, death, criminal liability. 

    Some suggest that there is a fourth degree played through a policy affecting communities, nations and the entire planet. It suggests that all parties in games are active participants, and considers the goal of the initiator not as a helpless victim, but as an actively participating player. In accordance with this idea, it prescribes names for the actions of the relevant players. Player “A” initiates the game using a “hook”, invitations using a “hidden” transaction. 

    For the game to go efficiently, the player “B” must take a hook at both levels. Doing this, in terms, he gives his “clue” - a certain need, which has “B”, which “A” can operate. It can be a need to recognize, the need to look wise or superior, or even beloved. By the way, now we have all the components for the formula of games in that.The game is defined as a combination of hook + clue, Which leads to a series of interactions or “reactions” between players, which is the main part of the game. 

    Then, in the end, to the “switch”, “embarrassment” and “reckoning”. Stephen Cartman created another way to conceptualize games with the help of his famous “dramatic triangle”, Applying the three dramatic roles of the victim, the pursuer and the Savior. Transforming the game “Why not you ... - Yes, but ...” In this format, we have “a”, starting as a victim, and “B” as the Savior. Switching occurs when “A” and “B” change roles when “A” becomes a pursuer for the victim “B”. 

    Why are we playing games?Here it becomes possible to satisfy mutual needs.The initiator is through his hook, and the target through his clues. Another reason is just attention.If someone craves attention, then he is looking for him, And in the absence of positive attention, negative attention is better than nothing. The drama provides potentially inexhaustible attention supply, as players support the conflict, switching from the pursuer to the state of the victim and vice versa. 

    The third idea is that the games support what our “life position” is called in that. It assumes that through the influence of our environment and upbringing, we can take a wide position in our relations to other people. We can take the position of equality with other people, that is, the position "I'm fine, you're fine." Or a depressive position, lowering themselves below others.[I'm wrong, you're fine.] An arrogant position, setting others below yourself.[I'm fine, you're out of order.] Or a doomed position, lowering everyone.[I'm wrong, you're out of order.] It suggests that we prefer to justify these positions for ourselves, even when they distort reality. 

    And we choose games that confirm our basic position. How can we put all this in practice to identify games and get out of them? The moment that I first want to especially emphasize, which is applicable to the entire series of rollers: Many of us most likely came across various training videos about relationships or self -confidence, Where it shows how someone uses prescribed techniques to resist the offender or manipulative employee. 

    And in response, the abuser is kindly retreating, recognizing his wrong, and magically transforms into a good and accommodating person. We all know that life is not like that.People who enjoy their superior position in unequal relationships do not give it so simple. Most often they will persist or even increase their Abuez. Human persistence in games can be very different, and sometimes it is simply impossible to turn interaction into positive and fair. 

    Understanding this ... Here are some options that it offers to solve problems with games. Games can end before you understand that you played them because we can be forgotten. Therefore, before the start of the game, try to reliably analyze: what is happening?How did it start? Who started this?What happens in the game?What feelings do you experience?How does it end? Awareness of these factors may notify you that you have been in the game. 

    See which of your needs are involved.If there is a need for approval, can you allow disapproval? If there is a need to be understood, then interacting with someone who intends not to understand you, no matter what you say, can you afford to abandon this need this time? The clues will be considered deeper in the next video. Follow the "depreciation".In that judgments that distort or deny some aspects of reality. 

    "This picture is just garbage!"- This is a depreciation, a statement that the picture is objectively worthless. "I don't like this picture."- Not a depreciation.Games always include any depreciation.[I can't ... you are useless ... you are always ... you never ...] Due to the dual nature of game transactions (the presence of hidden transactions), they often cause a characteristic slippery sensation. 

    For example, perhaps someone is trying to seem to your friend, but in fact he tries to suppress you.This slippery feeling can be a warning. If you have realized that you got into the game, that is, a number of opportunities. You can share your awareness of the game with another player and offer to stop it.React in an adult state. If you consider the game “Why don't you ...” - yes, but ... ”, then the parent component here manifests himself in the assumption“ b ”that he can come up with a solution that“ a ”has not yet thought about. 

    Let's remove this component of the parent and see what we stayed with. Here, “B” gives “A” a loan of trust that she will be able to independently find solutions.Now “A” has nothing to reject. We can react from other states than those that the game forces. This applies to those negative and positive aspects of the parent and the child described earlier. Here are 4 examples of alternative reactions to the game "Why don't you ... - Yes, but ..." A negative control parent produces a neglect that rejects the reprimand.["You are constantly complaining!"] The positive controling parent casts doubt on the “depreciation”, which expresses “a” that her task is impossible.And she advises her to try to start, in a encouraging manner. 

    The negative, caring parent rushes to the rescue, and this will most likely go to the game "Why don't you ... - Yes, but ..." A positive caring parent wants to help, but offers “a” to take the initiative.Thus, the responsibility for the problem remains on “A”. If someone intends to persist, despite reasonable response measures and clearly agreed boundaries, then the best solution can be completely cutting off this person from himself. 

    Not much can be achieved, trying to agree with people who are stuck in a dramatic role. This video concerned some ideas about games.In the next video, I will examine the clues in detail. 